Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow Date: Unknown. Rank: Lieutenant. Nationality: Australian. Text:Dear GoodsirI am snatching a moment as Iawait a court martial on some men at which I am awitness. Well I had a lovely trip to England andsaw England's sea strength. The torpedo boats are wonderfulthey can rush ahead to & fro in front of a troopship likea dog does in a field in front of his master. We werenearly in a bad way for a boat was sunk 80 milesahead of us but we were skillfully guided through alldangers. The great Eddison lighthouse was a grand sightone evening. The cattle at Devon are very fine. Theyare red and all in good condition. Though it wasautumn there is plenty of grass. The country is just likeyour paddocks (the best ones). Wet & hilly. It is strange to seethe fowl houses in the little fields & the fences of mud &hedges. It is similiar weather to Daylesford. I stand the coldwell but of course I am well wrapped up. In our roomswe have stores like you had at the Ridge school. Butthe do not smoke much & we burn coal. I saw the greatWestminister Abbey & went to matins there. The voices ofthe choir boys vibrated through the great ceiling. Every-where there are slabs showing someone is buried there.There are all the regimental flags on Wolfe's statueSt Pauls is a sight. I was shown into the Crypt aplace below the catheral in which there are severalchapels & the great tombs of Nelson & Wellington. I saw the Indian Princes place a wreath on "Bobs"Robert's grave. It was a solemn ceremony for several of themhad tears in their eyes. I saw all the chairs the kings & queensEngland sat in. Many of the best tombs & statues are covered withsand bags for protection. The pigeons at Parliament house & Trafalgarsquare are tame & fly onto one's shoulders. Queen Victoriasmonument in front of Buckingham Palace is magnificent. I saw theHorse Guards & they saluted as I passed & I saluted them.I heard Asquith & Lloyd Georges & Redmond speak in the House ofCommons. I was admitted through the courtesy of a member namedJohn Burns. My Uncle was very kind to me & showed me all things.We don't expect to be at the front for a few weeks yet but our menleave in a few weeks for certain. I have many letters yet to writeso you must excuse my short note this time. Remember meto all on the Ridge. I often think of you all & some day if I'mspared I'll run up to Ridge & see you all again. I hopethe children keep well & that Auntie & Mrs Fare also well.I suppose Goodie is working hard at school now & I will bepleased to hear he is getting on. Remember me to littleFlorrie. She was a good girl at school too. I hope Willie isnot moving barns & houses yet but is settled down in his home now.How does Fairy go? She took me many a hundred miles &fast too. As I write the booming of guns & bombs & the rattleof rifles maxim & Lewis guns helps to let you know why you arehere but of course it is only practise yet. The tanks are wonderful 300 horsepower 50' X 15' & hold 3 guns throw 6 lbs shells & several maxims & 9men can go up or down holes or buildings 12 feet high & are 12" steelarmoured. I see many mules here blueies, chestnuts, white & blacks theyare useful beasts yet a little donkeyish.Goodbye this time. I hope I hear from you soon. Yours sincerelyLt. W. G. Barlow . Address reply to Lt W. G. Barlowc/o G. E. May Esq103 Dagnall Park, S. NorwoodSE. England