Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow Date: 15 April 1917.Location: France, Firing line. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dear Goodsir,I think I wrote to Willie last. I am at lastsitting in a dry place (a tent) but I am wet through &feeling very cold as I write. I am really writing to dosomething to keep my mind occupied with other things than thewar. We have been trying to rest for about a week but we nosooner get settled than we have to suddenly pack up & run up& occupy some forward position to either annoy Fritz or else stophim trying to get through. As I write there is such heavy artillerybombardment going on I believe I'll have to stop if it continuesas we'll have to "stand to" again. Fritz has been getting asevere doing near by to our sector & he tried to take vengenanceout of we poor chaps but I think we have taught him a lesson.We are right on his strong line and it is like teasing a wolfin a cage. He comes out at us very seldom but if he does we justgive him a severe handling. The open warfare suits us best. It is notnice advancing to the attack under heavy artillery fire but our lads presson unheeding. A good bombardment is called "a drumming". The gunsjust bang & boom away incessantly. The noise is deafening. The balloonsgo up & the side that has mastery of the air quickly set them on fireor cause them to be lowered. There are some lovely horses here but theold mule is the best for transport work . I've had a few reconnoitring rideson old "crocks". But it didn't matter for they carried me throughthe shells & then one in particular took me safely home one black night & he had to carry me between nasty holes & cratersbut he was sure footed. The animals get used to the shells etcand though some shy at a dead horse or man they are nearly allused to anything. There are a lot of hares about here now. The countryis very suitable for farming. The soil is just lovely & has a nice claybottom. This day (16th April) has been a nice fine spring day till now.6 pm & it is raining again. I received 2 Daylesford Papers one day andI did enjoy the reading. I saw a few Daylesford lads lately. I sawyoung McKinnon (who used to be in my company at Daylesford)last night. He is a corporal & I looked very well. Today I got 6 niceletters from home and some little photos. These photos are a grandlink with home. I got a letter from Mr S. Patterson of Dry Diggings also& I hear he has lost one son here. The news I've just heard isagain grand we got 600 prisoners after the little attack Fritz madethe other evening. He got one of a balloons just now but down cameone of his soon afterwards. We are masters of the air again. Ourplanes can fly up or down sidewards, in fact any way at greatspeed. Our lads are singing choruses as I write. It is rainingbut they are cheerful. I'm sure the Germans are not singing. Theylook so downhearted when we get them. There is a lot of sugar beet& root crops grown here. We have luckily had no gas lately as thewarfare isn't suitable for it. We give & get gas shells thoughbut the results are local. It is grand to see our big guns at workyou can see the 9.2 inch shell fly up in the air on its deadlymission & follow it till it turns to drop then you miss it.I've seen heaps of these shells ready round a gun to be sent on toFritz. They are soon all gone. I'd sooner be at the gun end. We hope thiscruel warfare will soon end but we are determined to give our lives to see a thrashingdealt out to the cruel Germans if necessary to make him go on his knees for Peace. Rememberme to all at Ridge Mrs B tells of your kind invitations to stay with you. I'll come some day Goodby till next-time Goodsir. Yours very sincerely, W. G. Barlow