Author: Wilfred Griffith Barlow Location: In firing line FranceDate: 2 March 1917. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dear Goodsir,I am at last at the nasty job.I'm having a little spell for a day or 2 after a fight. I had a quickpassage to the firing line. I'm sitting now under the heavy gun fire of the foeyet we consider it is safe here compared with where I've been. This is an awfulwar alright. Now I know what it is really you people at home are spared adreadful thing and I'd fight again after this war to keep it out of our country.There are sure very big guns first near me as I write & they keep shaking me.There are balloons & aeroplanes over head & a host of army parts abound. So far theeye can see. The Germans are retreating before us fast and we though pleased at this are wild at the distance we have to tramp to get at him now. They are blowing thewhole country to pieces as they go. Of course our guns do it first. Fritz will be in atown or village & we'll simply blow him out of it (& then the village out too) with ourguns. Then we rush forward & take his trench or is possible before he can destroy them.The beautiful places are just obliterated. I can't describe it but if you see afrightful picture of any of the Somme battle fields then you only have a glimpse ofwhat the places are like. I have not lost 1 man yet and besides a cold am very fitmyself. I continually meet old chums even on the battle field. The transport& all ordnance & stores munition depts of our army are wonderful & do excellentwork. The old mule is a great friend here We march miles along "duck boards"to the firing line. There are so many shell holes that one couldn't get alongwithout these boards. The loads we carry forward are very heavy & onefeels inclined to fall sometimes under the load yet on we plodI got one letter from Mrs Barlow right up as I was fighting and Ilonged to get the job over to read that letter I can tell you The germans are grand aviators & seem to be master here in theair but we're got him doing a retreat & are belting him back.The gas is a nuisance we have to wear our respirators all the timeThe beggar popped a few tear shells into my position the nightI was being relieved but it didn't hurt us. We find he has lovelydug outs I had some on my sector up to 30 ft deep all clean &nicely boarded. The cunning beggars had left these dug outs readyfor demolition with guncotton on the walls etc. but I took theexplosive all off & then let my men go down below. He had tripwire etc to explode these things as we got inside I didn't like the job ofgetting these dug outs cleaned up I can tell you. Talk about mud I neversaw such mud. We came out of the line fit to score a host of satan's soldierslet alone Germans. Long beards & dirty clothes boots & faces. Just like the filthiestperson you've ever seen but all in good heart & glad to have a spellI've not had one letter from you yet but I expect some will come soon.We find the Germans are well feed & filled for the fight & it is sad to findwhen you enter a trench & take it that in the letters of the dead germansthere are letters to their wives & little ones & maybe a photo etc. I hopethe war will soon stop now for it is sapping out the best of men &all that is beautiful in civilized life. May be you'll read about thetime you get this of our great advance. No doubt Fritz will call ahalt directly & then we'll get shaft. They don't like the Australians asfighters. The scenes at night here are grand. yet terrible for the whole placeis lit up by rockets & flares. Hope all are well & prospering at RidgeRemember me kindly to Millie & all your dear ones. I hopeto see you all some day & then I'll talk (You are saying he alwayscould) Your sincere friend W. Barlow