Author: Wilfred Griffith BarlowLocation: Basalt,ElsternwickDate: 29 July 1916 Nationality: Australian. Text: Home again at. Dear Goodsir,I'm home again but this timeI'm on final leave. I've got till Monday night.It seems very short but I'm making the most of it.I have my full company now of 165 men & 1 officer.Mr E Ryan (son of Dr Ryan of Glenferrie). He is a finefella & I believe (though he is a RC) that we will befast chums. I am delighted with my men & theythink the world of me I so stimulate one to furtherefforts on their behalf. I had them at musketry fora week at Williamstown & I find I have some goodshots. We are due to sail in August but nothing isdefinite. I was going to try a push up to the Ridgebefore I left but I can't do it. We are all well athome & I trust they will keep so till I get backfor Mr B has plenty of work when all is well.I am fortunate in receiving a Case of magazines formy company from Gordon & Gotch & a wealthy ladyis giving each of my men socks, shirts & underpants& Lt Ryan & myself a pair of 15 guinea field glasses,each. I told you my Coy is 5/58 Bn which is doingall the work at the front in France at present.(The Anzac Bn) It is good to reinforce such afine Battalion. Col Davis is my Bn Com & GeneralElliot my brigadier (15 brigade) My colors are purple redso P.R. We are all so anxious to get away but nodoubt will be just as anxious to return 2 our dears ones. Remember me kindly to all at the Ridge & let me havea "Ridge" letter at least once a month. If you wantany news write to Mrs B to find out where I am any time.We are going to Salisbury Plains first. The trip takesabout 8 weeks via Cape. I'd like a ride on Fairyagain. Some day I may have that pleasure Aye?& I believe if Tich is there still & "Auntie" will notlook I'll try a ride on him also. How is little HowieFowler getting on? Surely she can write a letter to herold crabby teacher. She could write splendidly once -I suppose she has forgotten me. I have not forgotten any of theRidge folk. I learnt a lesson in tidiness from FreddieRussell I think I'll never forget. Remember the nightFred & I stayed at John place. Well Fred folded hisclothes with wonderful "exactitude" & I do that myselfnow even in camp I remember it. Remember me to Fred R.There are hundreds of incidents crop up as I writebut I must write several letters now I have a minuteof quietness at home. I have a nice letter fromWakhem school committee which I value & placealongside the one I got from the Ridge. When the waris over & all is quiet again I'll delight in againtaking up my profession. Why since I got to camp Igot my numerical from last school 95 so I thinkI must be a teacher Aye But this little "scrap" inFrance is very interesting to me at present & till I'vewon through that is where my heart & work is.Ta ta till next time Goodsir& don't forget a letter once a month atleast. Yours very sincerely W.G.BarlowO.C. 5/58th Bn A.I.F.B'meadows