Author: Herbert Gordon Carter Date: 1 May 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: 1st May 1915 laterI joined in the general advance. which consisted mainlyas far as I could see of the 4th Bn, although there werea lot of 2nd Brigade men with them too. We advancedO.K. to the top of the hill & then we had rifle fire fromthe front & deadly machine gun fire from the right flank.We had to advance across a piece of open ground & Ican't understand now how anybody got through.Most of us seemed to & when we got under cover & lay down theymust have put two belts clean thro' the maxims. Theyseemed to be going only inches over me & I had noidea I could lie so flat. I found one bullet hole thro'the back of my coat afterwards which I think musthave happened then. We kept on going & had a pretty easytime for about 300 yards when we had shrapnel openedon us with deadly accuracy. German gunners of course.After the shell fire the day before & the shock - this wastoo much for the men They retired & I'm sorry to saya great many broke into a rabble. About 100 yardsbehind was a valley with a sharp drop on the forwardslope which made quite good cover & when I stopped,thinking most of the others would I found myself gettingleft except for a few men & another officer, a very keenlittle chap & with his help & the shouting of Cooeeswe managed to get most of them to return to what wasreally a safe position. ungetatable by shells.The men dug & made themselves more secure & we gotthe position strengthened. It was then getting dark &one could move about more freely. Two shells burst veryclose to we, one scorched my face & I was verysurprised to find myself alive, the other caught my armslightly & made a small hole thro' my sleeve. Ifound later part of my equipment nearly cut thro' by a bullet so you can see I've had a few adventures.Night had fallen we were ordered to retire on ourmain defensive position. I was rather annoyed aboutthis as I think we could have held on ad lib, Wellwe retired on this position & dug hard all night & hadquite a respectable trench by morning. We were in thattrench two days & one night when we were relieved.The Turks attack chiefly at night & are up to a lot ofdodges. Germans of course do this They persistently blewthe bugle call of the British 'Charge' one night - Theirspies are very bad & there must be several in our linesfor all sorts of funny orders get about whose sourcecannot be ascertained. We were in rather a commandingposition our part of the trench & could see all over theplace. The bombardment of the Turkish position by the 10"& 12" Naval guns on Tuesday - was great to watch.They got amongst some of their supports & reserves & youcould see the Turks running in all directions -I've given you my own personal experiences - Ihad not the slightest idea of what we were supposed to do.However, we have sorted ourselves out now & know moreor less what we are up against. So should not suffer soheavily again. I can see however that in war hesitation is fatal - - It is something to have comethrough what we have for the Experience of the past fewdays will help us tremendously. There was a gooddeal of what seemed to me mock heroism, otherwisefool hardiness displayed the first two days.