Author: Herbert Gordon Carter Date: 30 April 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: 30 April 1915. My dear Father & MotherWell, here I am as yet safe & sound, butI can find no explanation for the fact Except themercies of Providence. We are now having arest after 4 days & 3 nights incessant strain,practically no sleep & very little tucker. The strain isthe worst for we were absolutely fighting for our lives -I will fill this letter up according to the time;if tomorrow is a rest I can go on - but now it isgetting dark & no lights are permitted - Lookingback - it seems marvellous to have got as farinland as we did Just now we are camped on the shore in theshelter of the steep bluffs - I had a glorious swim& sun bake yesterday - I don't think I everappreciated a swim so much. - We left Lemnoson Saturday morning (24th) & hung aboutgenerally all that day. - On Sunday morning welanded. The 3rd Brigade landed first, about 4 p.m.& captured the beaches along the coast. They wouldhave gone ahead at a wonderful rate for when wecame on shore at 7 oclock. it was without oppositionbut we were called on to reinforce a few minutesafterwards. The country was terrible to advance over- like the Blue Mts or Cowan Creek, only no trees,only low scrub. When we got near the firing linewe were fairly well done & had discarded our packs& most of the picks & shovels we were carrying.Then we got into the firing line where the 3rdBgde were & were told to hang on. I never hopeto have to go thro' such a fire as we were subjectedto all day. The worst of it was coming direct fromthe flank - enfilading us - The shell fire was theworst but their machine guns did a lot. My skipperCapt McGuire had not been there 5 min before he was hit but he managed to be able to walk back. Idon't mind confessing that for the first two hours Iwas thoroughly scared & wondered how on earth anyone was to go through a campaign at this rate forI had no idea as to whether the conditions werenormal for war or not. Anyway I'm glad to saythat, thanks to your bringing up my instincts werecorrect - for when some of the men started shouting outto retire & tried to run, I found myself standing up& shouting to them to go back regardless of anything.I give you full credit for this, my Father & Mother,for the action came quite spontaneously & was notthe result of any thought. It gave me a great dealof confidence & I felt fairly right from then. I hadanother occasion for a similar action later on inthe day & I kept getting hold of all the scared chapsabout & sending them up. For about 3 hours beforenightfall. I don't think I dared move -By nightfall we were able to move about freely & Ifound myself some distance from where I was atthe beginning of the day - although I thought I had movedonly a few yards. I went to look for the Company &found them similarly situated - all over the place in fact I could only find a few. So I helped asection of the line that had lost an officer & wentback to Bdge H.Qs. for orders & to report position.They sent me back & cheered me as much as theycould - altho' they were very grumpy themselves & talkedof retreat. However they told me we must hang on so Iwent back but could not find the lot I had left, itsextraordinary how easy it is to get lost. Howeverthat did not worry me much for I found about 150 menwalking about. apparently leaderless & retiring.They were taking things very easily & there seemed noreason for retiring, so I took charge of them & wemade a firing line in the best available position there,& dug ourselves in for the night. The Turks attackedonly about 5 mins after we rallied & made a lot ofrow shouting "Allah" etc. so we could hear themcoming. However it's not wise to shoot at night tillyou can see your enemy so we waited till they werewithin 100 yards & let them have it. The "Allahs"ceased & we had an hour or so spell. This put alot of confidence into the men & they dug well. Then Ispent some time going around improving the line & findingwhat troops there were around. Things were really a lot better than I had imagined for there was quite astrong defensive position behind me. Which I couldfall back on & it was well held. So we held on &one or two night attacks met with the same success asthe first. They tried to get round us by the Sea shore buta Torpedo boat destroyer spotted them - that ended thatmovement. By morning we were well dug in & though theyput shrapnel over us, we could lie low - We didnot move at all that morning as I thought it best notto do till orders were received. A detached body likeus could do no good on its own. Gen Bridges cameround at 3 pm & ordered us to swing round & joina general advance that was taking place.