Author: Douglas Barrett LennardDate: 13 May 1915. Nationality: Australian. Text: My dearest Mother,I must try & scribble you a fewlines somehow before the mail tonight, but itis writing under rather difficult circumstances,having been under heavy fire for the lastfortnight. I am writing with a borrowed pencil -using stolen paper - & my very last envelope.When this is gone I shall send cablegramsfortnightly & my Service P.C's. I am absolutelywell & sound & Tom is also althoughwe have both had our share of excitement& fighting. For the last ten days we haveworked severty every night & nearly allthe days & the whole Battery is absolutelyexhausted & fatigued. We have beensent to the beach to rest for two daysto recover. During that ten days wehave been digging gun pits over ourInfantry firing line so as to be able to shoot out of them the following day &have been under fire & exposed tosnipers & shrapnel the whole time.Our casualties up to date have beenrather heavy - about 25% of the Batterythat has landed are wounded (only oneactual death) the rest having goneinto hospital. Fred & Cedric Pattersonwere both hit by shrapnel at the sametime & Roy Braidwood who is my Sergeantwas unfortunate enough to stop a bulletwhile we were running our gun intoaction a few morning ago.Our Infantry have suffered terribly -Barnes-Lalor & hundreds of othersare dead but of course their names havebeen published long ere this.The food we are served out is exceptionallygood though sometimes the water isscarce. I am satisfied that I will beable to rough it with any of themalso the hard work that we fall infor at times & lack of sleep, I am able tostick it out with most. I must explainMater that while camped at Menawhen we thought we were never going to the War - I feel quite friendly towards the old Turk& would not mind having a pot withhim anywhere but these German [[cons?]]I feel I can never trust. We have beenafraid that they would make use oftheir asphyxiating gases so have beenissued with Ir respirators which wecarry round our necks at night time& are kept in a handy place duringthe day. They certainly will have theadvantage over us if they come at thatdodge because they have the windblowing from their direction but stillI think there is little to fear in thatquarter & the gases are fairly harmlessif we have our respirators on. I havereceived no mail from home since writingto Mother but am expecting some in thenear future, also some writing material.I suppose you & the boys are busypruning - I would like to be with youbut still would not miss. this showfor anything. Hoping you & Mother arequite well & to hear from you again soonwith love to everybody fromyour loving sonD. Barrett - Lennard