Author: T. L. Tyobbs Rank: Colonel. Date: 22 July 1915. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dear Mr Henn,Doubtless it is the intentionof the Trustees to place on the wallsof your beautiful school Chapel thenames of Boys who have passedthrough the School; and who havedied in the service of their Country.I can think of no lad who moredeserves this honour than DouglasBarrett-Lennard - an old GuildfordSchool Boy - I am informed - who waskilled in action here. GALLIPOLIPENINSULA. last Sunday.As a matter of fact he was notkilled when the shell struck him; butlived a couple of hours afterwards.He with Sergt. Taylor & GunnerStanley Carter all of the 8th West Aust.Battery were serving a gun underheavy shell fire from the Enemy whena High Explosive Shell struck theshield & terribly wounded the 3 men.Carter only lived a short time -regaining consciousness just before he passed away, asked "Is the gunalright, Sergt?"Young Lennard allthough in frightfulagony lived for two hours & remainedconscious until the end. He bore hisawful sufferings with magnificentcourage & fortitude. Calmly leftmessages for his loved ones at "Home"& said just before the end. "Welllads I'm done. I feel myself sinkingbut by God you see I'mdying hard.His conduct from the time hejoined the Battery had been markedby the most earnest devotion to duty& he had done well & would soonhave got well earned promotion - asan instance of his spirit of selfsacrifice - he said when he & hiswounded comrades were being removedfrom the Gun pit - "Look afterthe Sergeant - I'm alright" - thiswith with shoulder smashed his armhanging by a shred his leg smashedto a pulp. His death is a severeloss to his Battery & is deeplydeplored by his many friends. His example of devotion in duty,courage, fortitude & self sacrificewill be handed down for longyears to come in the history of his,may I say it now - famous Battery.I write this as I think his friends& the Boys in the School shouldknow how gallant a lad he was,how well he knew his duty & did it& the example he leaves them to follow.Sergt Taylor whom I mentioned had14 shrapnel wounds in his head &shoulders, but wanted the others lookedafter first, saying - "I'm only scratched- look after the others-"This my Dear Mr Henn is the stuffthe majority of our lads from Australiaare made of - I hope there are manyready to follow the examples set bySergt Taylor. Gunr Lennard + GunrCarter.With kind regardsI amYours sincerelyJ. L. Tyobbs.. ColCommanding Division Artillery1st Aust Div.