Author: Douglas Barrett Lennard Location: Gaba Tepe Turkey.Date: 17 July 1915. Nationality: Australian. Text: 5 A.M. Dear PaterMail day has come roundonce again, the days simply fly herealthough the weather is now becominga trifle hot which will help tomake the days seem longer as weare very badly off for shade.In a Sub Section there are walking twodifferent detachments which meansthat the one on duty have to havetheir swags packed by 4.A.M. & tobe ready to man the gun if calledupon at any possible moment -consequently the present early hourfor writing. News is as scarce as everbut rumours to further orders, alsoletters having to be censored by one ofour own Battery Officers which causes acertain amount of embarressment & helpsto make a letter less interesting. Atdaylight this - morning a German aeroplaneflew over our heads & presented us withtwo bombs- one fell about a quarter of a mile away & the other one landed quiteclose but luckily did not explode,however after dropping the bomb shewas nearly brought down by her ownmen who mistook her for one of ours& gave her a pumping of shrapnel.before they discovered their mistake.I also heard this- morning that MajorBrockman stopped a bullet in thechest & hit slightly in both legs whenon the beach by a sniper, but it isnot considered dangerous. At present weare still holding our position but weseem to be preparing for a big movewhich should take place very shortlynow. Our heads seem to think that ifthis present move is successful, & it issure to be so but only at our own costthat the time here in Turkey will bepractically over. I do hope it will betrue because I am not looking forwardto spending winter in the trenches.One has to admit that these Turksare damn good fighters & have alwaysplayed the game so far but it is theGerman Officers that cause all the trouble. May God grant you all strength to receive the news ofyour loving son & the best friend of his heart broken palLove D. Cusack. P.S. He was buried yesterday evening& is resting in peace. I will lookafter his grave. His thingswill be sent home London. Written just before going into action for the last time.