Author: Guy Arnold Date: 5 February 1915 Regiment: 2nd Battalion 1st Infantry Brigade Nationality: Australian Text: 5 February 1915.My dear Father,I was glad to receiveyour letter the other day; I am afraidit would not be much of a holidayfor you in the hospital, with a poisonedleg; I hope it will soon be better, itseems a terrible climate for ones' blood.Have you seen Tom Burton yet? I sawhim down Sydney about a week ago,with a fellow that was working atMac Bride's; I was surprised to see them,they told me all the news. Tom promisedto call in & see you when he got back.We had our final leave about a weekago, I spent most of my time in Sydney;we had a very good time, I should haveliked to have got up & seen you beforeleaving, but it was a little too far.I don't know for certain when we sailyet, but I don't think it will belonger than two or three days, we havethe greater part of our equipment now we have our top coats to get yet, & a fewlittle odds & ends.All our reinforcements marched throughthe streets of Sydney yesterday, the crowdgave us a very good cheering, I did notexpect to see half such a big crowd.Have you heard Kenneth has joined again;they kept him messing about so before hecould get in the Navy, & I think themoney ran short; so he went into thehospital for his opperation, & joined here abouta week ago. I have just been gettinghim transfered into the same companyas myself, I think he will be fixed upfor certain to-morrow; you see he hashad a couple of years in the O. T. C. inthe Old Country so he knows his drill; Quitea lot of the fellows out of our Coy have beendischarged & put back into different Coysjust lately for getting drunk & over steppingtheir leave, so that there are plenty ofvacancies for us to get our friends & relationsin the same Coy.I had a letter from Mr Lennard, brotherto Mrs. Swann, asking me to go & see thembut I never got the letter until after I got back from my holidays so Ithink it doubtful if I shall be able tosee them. I wrote to Mr. Lennard &Uncle Swann yesterday.I don't know whether you received thatmoney I sent you some time back Isent up three pounds, I would havesent you some more this last pay, onlyI could not do it as I spent it allduring my final leave & also I letKenneth have a pound as he was short.I am leaving you three fifths of mywage inc three shillings a day, it willstart from the day we leave Australia;I hope you will accept it as nearly allthe fellows our leaving about the sameto their parents. I case you don't receivethe money regularly you must write downto the military authorities, I don't supposeyou will receive the first paymenttill nearly a month after we sail, soI should not worry them unles they runtoo long after that, we get payed paid fortnightlyso I suppose you will receive the moneyfortnightly. I am sorry to hear about Grannie'sdeath, it must be a great blow to you,being away from your Mother at the end.I hope you will have good luck in sellingthe place, if you are still determined inselling; I hope Rupert will stop with you;I don't like the idea of going away & leavingyou alone. I suppose when Kenneth fills inhis form, he will leave three fifths of hiswage to you. I don't want you to worryabout that seventy pounds, I would rather youkept it, as I am more capable of earning it, thanyou, at your age.I am glad the cane is looking well, I wassurprised to hear about Wilson wantingto sell out.I think you better address my next letter toEgypt. I was talking to an old man in Sydney, hetold me he had four sons at the in Egypt & one at home& his Mother had just written to tell him (son) it was his duty to join.Pretty patrioticwasn't he.With best love Your affectionate son,Guy Arnold. I have puton one stonend& a halfsince I have been in camp am13 stone 7lbs now, so thislife suits me doesn't it.2nd Reinforcements2 Battalion1st Infantry Brigade.