Author: James Joseph Makins Location: Somewhere in France Date: 3 July 1916 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & Father,The mail has been extended untiltomorrow, so I shall give you theabsolute "last edition" news.First of all, I am quite well andin the best of spirits, - something whichI know you most want to hear eachmail. That great thing expectation hasbeen at work during the past week, andit is the one thing, which prevents thismilitary life from becoming irksome. Theexpectation of "something doing" at anytime, an impending mail from dearold Melbourne, or of seeing new placesand new things keeps us always fromnoticing hardships, fatigue or monotony.The mail has not yet come, but itis only a matter of days, they say. Someunits had theirs' several days ago - dated16/5/16.The last fews days have been easyones, and we have had a good old rest.We have also had a nice hot bath, and a clean change of underclothes, - indeeda boon to those who have become somethingof a stronghold of those pests of all pests,namely, 'chats'. So far I have beenvery fortunate in this respect, but othershave had a bad time.There is really very little news to tellyou. I could easily write you a lotof stuff, but I am afraid it would not bevery interesting. However, two pages looksmean for a letter, - so here goes!My razor having gone blunt and my hairclosely resembling a professor, I decided tovisit the barber's the other night. Thereare no red, white and blue posts and barber'spoles here to look for, so you just walk alonguntil you see a small board sticking outfrom a door, and on it written "coiffeur".In you go, sometimes along a passage,(don't hesitate to open any doors you come to),and you will arrive at the saloon. Theparticular place I struck the other night wassomething of a family concern. - I wasgreeted with "bon Soir, Monsieur", shown to theoperating chair, and the performance started. Father was busy shaving someone, so mother cut my hair (and a good cut it was too). In the meantime several more customers came in, so further assistance was requisitioned. It arrived in the person of the daughter - a girl about 15 or 16 years old. I moved onto the next chair, and "Miss "Coiffeuse" proceeded. She lathered my face with great care, and was lavish in the use of soap. I did not know what was coming, - was surprised at each move. I fully expected that she would "carry on" and finish the operation, but suddenly, my face having been lathered with meticulous care, I was motioned to seat No. 3, where father proceeded to finish the job. This he did with the speed and touch of the skilled artist. I was then shown a bowl of water in a corner, where the superfluous soap is removed. (Perhaps I looked as if I wanted a wash) Anyway, the incident ended in paying "madame" "douze sous" (6s), and I bade all three "bon soir", which they returned with typical French "politesse". I have learned to confine myself strictly to English, except of course the universal "bon soir", "bon jour", "no bon" &c, which all Australians use by this time. It is like this, - you think out a nice little sentence, remember your pronunciation and surprise Monsieur, who immediately thinks you speak French and opens out on you unmercifully "20 to the dozen". Of course you are hopelessly at sea, and feel "squashed" (as Rube would say). So now I plead ignorance and amuse myself in trying to follow their conversation. It is amusing to hear our Australian soldiers adapting themselves to the country they are in, and its language. In Egypt the universal salutation was "sayeda" (good-day); here it is "bon jour, Monsieur" (sometimes uncommonly like "bonzer manure"). You never think of saying "Yes" here; it is always "oui, oui". When you tell anyone anything, and ask him if he "gets you", it is invariably "compre?" I doubt if you will "compre" all this stuff. We are very jubilant at the news of a British and French advance on both sides of the Somme, and hope it will not be the only one. The Huns are still striving for a decision at Verdun, but still with little success. The Russians are still imitating Johnie Walker, but have considerably more than 1820 to their credit. I see Billy Hughes is on his way back. He "sure made some hit in Blighty". He is only a "pocket edition" in size, but his speeches have the weight of a Cyclops. I have not heard from Les since I last wrote. Well, dear people, I must now "desist" as I think I have inflicted already too much upon you at once. Yours affect' son, Jim.