Author: James Joseph Makins Location: Sutton Veny Wiltshire England Date: 11 December 1918 Nationality: Australian Text: My dearest Mother & Father, Today i have received your letters of 30/9,16/10 and 27/10, thanks to having themsent to Fred Juergens, and althoughI am always awaiting them andlook forward to them from mail tomail, at present I almost dread toopen them for the fear of having somebad news. I know too well what a fearful shockyou have received, and that it hascome as a climax to several yearsof almost continual worry. It is toomuch to expect a mother or fathernot to grieve, but I sincerely hopeyou will bear up against this strokeof adversity and say as I haveheard many French Mothers mutterwhen several sons had fallen"mort an champ d'honneur" "C'estla Guerre, c'est la guerre". It isenough to know Les lives in heavenas surely there is such a placeof God's creation. I am sorry to say I have not yet any immediate prospect ofleaving for home. You may restassured I am leaving no stoneunturned by which I may achievemy greatest wish, which is toreturn and try to comfort youin your trouble. I do not wish you to forgetLes or the greatest of all actsof love and self sacrifice in layingdown his life for his country,that we might live, but I praythat God will strengthen you tobear your burden of grief the better. I often lay awake at nightand wonder if in time we shallforget, forget those who lie asleep,who did not live to see thatgreat day in our lives, whichwe have all recently celebratedand hailed with joy, but whichthrough all those black, darkdays seemed too wonderful forrealization. I fear that Harryalready has forgotten, or else didnot, at any time, realize how noblyLes was "carrying on" never murmuring againsthardships and bitter disappointments. seen by others. What a horrible thing it is to thinkof such discord in a family of the sameflesh and blood! Consider a man, wholavishes the money entrusted him bya brother who is risking his life thathe the other might enjoy his life of security andprosperity. And then thanks he gives,and the consideration he shows, to his motherwhen he achieves a position in which hecan afford to go away, after being helpedalong when things were not too bright. These are some of the things which mustbe explained. They are granting us ten days leaveat Xmas or New Year. I shall try toget over to Rouen if possible. It willprobably be the only opportunity I shallget of seeing St. Severs Cemetary. I wrote to Ruby, Gertie and yourselvesa day or so ago, so there is notmuch news left to tell you. BillO'Brien leaves for Weymouth tomorrow and willsoon be on his way home. Jack Barry,Dick Maher and I did him "bon voyage"tonight. Much love to all Your loving son, Jim