Author: James Joseph Makin Location: A I F Headquarters 130 Horseferry Road LondonDate: 25 May 1918 Nationality: Australian Text: My dear Mother & father, Since my letter of a week ago Ihave not received any further lettersfrom home, and consequently I havenot got as much news to write about.I am now comfortably settled down in my new residence, and I likeit very well. It is only about20 minutes walk from Putney Heath,a beautiful strip of country inspring and summer. During the last week or soall the trees, which have been bareand cheerless throughout the drearywinter months, have burst intoleaf. Yesterday afternoon was beautifullyfine, and being Sat. we had the afternoon off. My pal and roomcompanion (a Sydney boy namedFred Juergens) accompanied me ina long walk across the common. We made up with a number of small boys and bought into agame of cricket. The kids werehonored for us to play withthem, and played their hardest. In the evening we went tothe suburban theatre to a spy-play called "Inside the Lines."You have no idea of the rowkicked up by the gallery folks,almost making the actors inaudible. The poorer Classes of Londonersare frightfully ignorant, and haveno parallel in Melbourne in this respect. Les is still at Warminster. I daresay you have as latenews of him as of me, asI suppose our letters travel home together. I told you, I think, that Ihad thrown figures to the wind.I am now a correspondentin the Allotments Section and I write 30 or 40 letters to thevarious States of Australia everyday. I dictate as many aseighty letters a day to mytypist, right from the files. It takes about a monthbefore one becomes accustomedto the work, and it is aboutthe only job I have been in since I enlisted where I canshow a little individuality. I shall not be long ingetting another stripe on thiswork I think, if I get mydues; but of course one seldom gets that in the army. When the last lot ofpromotions came out and I was excluded you could haveknocked me down with afeather. It was a great injusticeand I told the responsibleLieut off in great style. It remains to be seen whether he will nurse a grudge against meinconsequence; probably he will.Brian Rush, formerly of the Customs in Melbourne is a Lieutin Finance, but in a differentsection. Harry knows him Ithink. I often see CharlieDunn of Armstrong St. He isa Lieut in the Engineers, andis stationed down at SalisburyPlains somewhere. Cricket has started againin England. The long nights(it is quite light enough toplay at 9 o'clock) are suitedfor plenty of practice, andEngland should produce thebest cricketers in the world. The Westminster School, aboutthe largest public school in London has an oval at Vincent Squareright in front of our building. All the boys of this schoolpass from cadet schools, and all become officers. Every afternoonthey are playing cricket or football and I believe muchmore time is devoted to sportthan to learning. Lookingfrom my window across tothe ground, I am alwayslonging for my school daysagain, and think of theselong wasted months. Wastedof course I mean in my ownselfish light, but I suppose I am helping to vanquish old Fritz. All the same, and in this sense perhaps the time isnot wasted. It has been rainingheavily all the morning, butthe sun is just beginning toshine again, and I amlooking forward to a goodlong walk this afternoon. After a week of solid indoor walk I breathe a sighof relief on Saturdays. Now isthe time when it is good tobe alive. After months of foggywet weekends, one sees thesun, and walking about thestreets one notices the Australians basking like so manysnakes. Their faces are fairlyradiant with the joy of beingalive. On such days asthese we needs must think of our sunny native land, and wonder what our goodpeople are doing. I trust you are all welland happy. I should givea lot to know you are notworrying overmuch, andfretting at the time it istaking to finish this ghastly business and bring us back to our loved ones. Best loveand kisses from your affect. son, Jim