Author: James Joseph Makins Location: Somewhere in France Date: 25 June 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Dearest Mother & Father,Your letters of 18/4/16 and 2/5/16 to hand,the former about 8 days ago and the latterjust a while ago.I told you in my last letter that Iwas in A Company, 21st Battalion, but in caseit went astray I am mentioning it again.I am back in billets again behind the linesafter 12 days in the trenches, and "believeme", it is fine to be here again for a spell. You know we went into the trenches onWhitsunday night, the 11th, and in that shorttime since, your little Jim has come tofeel like a veteran; at any rate, a tired man. But nevertheless we are still known as the"new men", my mate and I, and we mustpocket our indignation when we are regardedas mere raw recruits by those who were lucky enough to be on Gallipoli (although manydid not see a Turk). Still we are by nomeans downhearted, because, both being bigand strong, we can soon "prove our salt",and if necessary demonstrate that allreinforcements are not "mugs" (despite our looks). We were rather unfortunate in striking fouror five days bad weather. You know whattrenches are after plenty of rain,- mud,slush, slime,- oozy and juicy.Then again, length has its disadvantagesat times; for instance, when one has tomake his way into a dugout through ahole less than 2ft x 3ft, with severalinches of sticky mud on the doorstep, andwithout crawling all over your mate, ifhe happens to be in first. Also, whenhe has to keep his head below a parapetmade for a man "5ft nothing" for a 2 hr.stretch. But I would not lose and inchof my 6 feet, because the longer one is inthe army the more proud he becomes ofbeing the possessor of height and physique.I wonder if you ever think of meas the long, frail boy I used to be. If you do, get it right out of your head,because the French air and outdoorlife has made me quite rugged, andthe stern training has hardened meso that I feel quite equal to the rigorsof a soldier's life. And more than this,I am quite satisfied that I shouldnever have been anything of a manunless I tasted hardship and mingledwith men. This I have done, and Ithink that, when I come back, you will see that you did not make amistake in letting me come, as younobly did. Were I in Melbourne todayin the same old groove I am afraidI should "pine away and die" at thethought of being unable to be in themiddle of this glorious, uncertain, yetbest of lives.Do you ever think of "poor old Jim"suffering with sore feet, fatigue, hunger, thirst, discomfort, fright, fear &c &c &c?As I said before,- "get it right out of yourhead", for he is happy if he is, and"when the toil of a long day is over" herests just as comfortably on a hard floorand enjoys it as much as you in yoursoft beds, and his thoughts of "home andbeauty" are not the troubled, anxiousthoughts of a mother for her luckysons. I often think of you worryingfor our safety and welfare, and knowtoo well that yours is the hardest burden,- the watching, praying, waiting. Butshould anything happen to me, consolyourself with the thought that Icould not wish myself anything better, andwould not wish myself anywhere butwhere I am at present. It is only permitted to refer to trenchesand trench life in an "abstract" form,i.e. one must not mention places, actions,or units, but must confine himself to adescription of the life generally. Thus youwill understand how difficult it is towrite an interesting letter, for I know youare longing to know just all about whatwe are doing over here "somewhere in France". It would be idle words to try to assureyou that the life is "all milk and honey",and that there are no trials or dangers, but what kind of a war would it be withoutthem? I can see my dear little motherin pensive mood with strained imaginationthinking of Germans as some terrible sortof devils against whom our "poor untrainedAustralians" are ill-matched. But beassured it is not the case. Some of us were in the trenches 12 days withoutseeing a Hun, although on the watchfor them from 3 am. until 10 pm. atnight. Most of us almost prayed theywould show some fight, or try to provethis "undoubted superiority". No; they arefar too shrewd just about here, and livein "fear and trembling" of our nocturnal visits. They do not get it all their own waywith their "almighty" artillery, and, believeme, they do get some "hurry up" at times,(which is pretty often). French peoplein the neighbourhood (for there are stillsome civilians who do not think of leaving),say, "Australia 'bon'; plenty 'bombard'." No doubt "Fritz" expresses himself likewise,but I am sure he would substitute quitea different adjective for the "bon" (Perce cantranslate this word).For goodness sake! don't think weare constantly under a rain of shells,clouds of asphyxiating gas, liquid fire,(or all other "frightfulness"). Most of thetime it is quiet and peaceful, andwe are entertained in watching air-duels,and aeroplanes manoeuvring likegreat majestic hawks. There are timeswhen skylarks are singing blithelyover No Mans Land, and the war seemsas far distant as it does to you peoplein far Australia.So please don't worry, but try andbe as cheerful as the French women,who, with husbands and sons "strafing" the Boches, and with homes desolatedby shells and pillage, continue oncheerfully and hopefully, praying"Monsieur le bon Dieu" to bring victory to"La France" and their dear ones safe back.These people have suffered all, and wein Australia comparatively not at all. And now for news in general. Firstabout Les. My last letter is 2/6/16, andno noubt later ones are at the other camp,and will shortly come along. He was stillat Weymouth then. I got his photo, (alone),also one taken with Dr. Gibson, who writesregularly to me and keeps me smiling.He is "some character" and a fineletter writer. I must put forward mybest efforts when I answer his letters,but I admit I cannot "counter" his wit.It is rare. He assures me a good time when I get to England.I was very glad my diary cameto hand from Egypt, as well as some letters and the silk. I had betterluck than I expected. I shall askyou to please look after the diary andsee that no leaves are mislaid. The most effective way is not to let it leave the house. If you would like anyone to read it, they can do so at ourplace quite easily I think. I have sentthe rest of it (up till early in June) toLes at Weymouth. I am waiting tohear if he got it safely. If he did, heshould be able to send it along to yousafely. It was impossible to write ona pad in the trenches, so I have keptit in the pocket book you gave me, andit may be possible to transcribe it later on.Re the silk, I am afraid I ama poor hand at buying such stuff, andstill worse at knowing what is suitableto send anyone, but what can you expectfrom a professional "penpusher". Had Ibeen a softgoods man I shouldhave been able to do better. I had a letter from Harry (8/5/16)telling me he was jogging along andnot much else startling. I am gladLenore is doing well. She is a dear littlekid. I got her photo last mail.I think I told you previously I got Ruby'sand Gertie's photos, didn't I? Well I must close as this is getting bulky.Best love from your affectionate son, Jim. [*P.S I am writing to Ruby andPerce this mail also.Jim.*]