Author: James Joseph Makin Location: A I F Headquarters LondonDate: 15 April 1918 Nationality: AustralianText: My dear Mother & Father, Your letters of 31/1, 5/2, and 18/2 all to hand by the same mail this morning. I was wondering when I was going to get your next letters. As you will see they are much delayed these times. I am pleased to say they find me well and still in London. When I read them and noticed the anxious tone in them as to whether I should be sent back to France or not, I am glad for your dear sakes I am safe in England. But there are times I assure you when I feel as I did during those few months before I enlisted. I had a letter from Les a day or so ago in answer to one I sent him to wish him many happy returns. He is feeling well, and up to now has no word of going to France. He never forgets to remind me to hang on here in London as long as I can. On Saturday we played a match against the Australian munition workers at Chiswick. They had a good side, including Wally Johnson and Toohey of Fitzroy, but we won comfortably by 9-11 to 4-1. Did I tell you of the Sports we held at Bournemouth at Easter? The opposing football team could not get leave so we arranged a series of sports meetings. I won a 100 yards footrace and a 66 ydsswimming race, both from scratch and was declared champion. You did not know I could run, did you? The war is now in the mostcritical stage since 1914. We appear to be holding the Germans during the last few days, and the situation is more hopeful that in the first stages of the offensive. Germany is making a final bid for victory before America can get her full strengthinto the field. If we can hold themuntil then, victory is assured andan early victory too I think. Butfor America coming to our aid, theRussian collapse would have been fatal to us and our cause. There has been terrific fighting during the last two days for the village ofNeuve glise. The Germans took it, but we have recaptured it by a counterattack and are holding it at present. I sentyou about a dozen Post Cards of Neuveglise in 1916. Did you remember you had views of the place when youread the reports during the last few days?When we left Amentieres (Rue Marle and Bois Grenier) we marched throughSteenwerck to La Crche, only one-quarter miles from Neuve glise. We were there for about 4 days before starting our march toentrain for the Somme. During those fourdays Les was with the Entrenching Battalionat Neuve glise, but of course I didnot know at the time. It was thennearly 2 years since I had seen him,so you can imagine how I felt aboutit when I heard he was there nearme. He sent a letter by hand into my little bit of trench at Pozires bya Lieutenant who was joining my battalion. I was brought away a few days later and I did not see him then untilhe came to England just 8 months later. These places, all now in German hands I once more, have therefore a very live interestto me. I was only reading my pocketdiary of those days the other night. I have sent it home, together with a fewlittle souvenirs with Jack Draper, whois due to sail for Australia any daynow. Keep the little diary for meplease and don't shew it to anyone except our family as it is by no meansmeant for anything but a reminder ofmy adventures in France. Whilst Iwas at La Crche I got to know aFrench family of the name Salen verywell. They used to tell me of the dayswhen the Germans first overran thatdistrict, until they were driven back afew miles into positions they thenoccupied. Little did they think thesame thing was to happen after anothertwo years! Can you imagine thefeelings of these poor French peoplein their little ravished homesteads? Howthankful you should all be that you are so far removed from all the horrors of war! I am wondering if they had timeto flee, or if they stayed behind asin 1914. The snap taken at the Post Officepicnic is very good. Ruby and Perceare quite distinct. I have never seensuch a likeness as between Les andPerce. It is very evident in a photo.When Les met me, almost the firstthing he said was, "How like Harry youare, especially when you talk." I am enclosing a PIC taken atBrightingsea of our football team. Weplayed a match down there against theAustralian Engineers. I come out fairlyclearly and I think you will pick meout. I have sent home my old RugbyGuernsey with a red kangaroo on it as asouvenir. Jack Draper is taking it. It should now be getting a bitlike Spring but it is still cold andwintry. I shall not be sorry whenthe fine weather sets in.I hope father's leg got O.K. againand Gertie quite well. You sayGertie was starting her second year atthe Mid. Park High School. I did not even know she was there last year. I am glad Perce is getting alongalright at work. You say Perce is always swimming and could beat meby now. Perhaps so, but he would bebusy I think. I hope we shall swimtogether in the old baths again one dayanyhow. I shall be content to bebeaten, believe me. Well, I must close nowwith fondest love to all, including Harry,Essie and dear little Lenore. Your affectionate son, Jim. AUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE.A.I.F. & WAR CHEST CLUB. 97, HORSEFERRY ROAD,Citizens "War Chest" Fund, Sydney, N.S.W. LONDON S.W.1.BEHIND ARMY AND NAVY STORES AND OPPOSITE A.I.F. HEADQUARTERS