Author: James Joseph Makin Location: A.I.F Headquarters LondonDate: 26 May 1918Nationality: Australian Text: Dearest Mother,Your ever-welcome letters of 24th and30th March just to hand. Somehow when I get your letters, dearmother, I always get a violentspasm of home sickness, and in a few moments my thoughts fly back to all my dear people somany thousands of miles overseas. I often want to write to youjust as I feel when I get yourletters after weeks of waiting, whenI am almost too full of pleasantmemories of home for expression in writing. Do you ever think myletters very impersonal in tone, -not like a son to a mother? It is because I disguise myfeelings with writing commonplace news, and outline my sports andwork in great, big London, sothat perhaps you will think I am not worrying of you, and that I am making the best of things while I am lucky enough to be living in safety and comfort. I have often wanted to tell you how Iappreciate your beautiful words ofmotherly love. They comfort megreatly and it is pleasing to reflect that one has been somecomfort and little worry to the best mother in all the world. You were asking if I stillhave the crucifix and other littlebadges and things I brought with me. I am proud to say that I haveevery one, and I treasure themvery dearly, because I know it is your wish. I shall bring them all home to you some day, -let us hope it will be sooner than appearances indicate at present. I still go to church andlive up to my religion. I tryto live cleanly, and though weare confronted with many pitfallsin the way of temptation, I haveconfidence that I shall be alwaysable to resist them. Last time I saw Les he showed me some medalshe brought away with him; he would not lose them for anything. I hada letter from him yesterday from Warminster. He is well and cheerful,and says he is likely to behere for some time yet. I never hear from Harry now.The letters passed from "seldom tonever." I suppose it is my faultfor not writing more often. I want you to keep thisletter for yourself alone, dearmother, for I know what father is.He would sneer to himself, oropenly perhaps, and so hurt your feelings. I shall write anotherfor his benefit tomorrow. They willboth go by the same mail. How does he behave these times? Still as of old? Believe me, Iam always thinking of you, andhow I could have been somedegree of comfort to you in yourtimes of worry, but for this unfortunatewar. It hurt me much more thanever you could imagine in leavinghome to come. I daresay youregarded me as thoughtless and impetuous, but I had thoughtof it continually for months beforeI finally decided I had to come. When I get back I knowI shall appreciate home once moreall the better, for the old sayingis wonderfully true, "absence makesthe heart grow fonder." I hopeyou are looking after yourself asfar as possible and not overdoingthat endless task of house keeping. I suppose Ruby is a grand helpto you now. I absolutely cannotrealize Ruby quite a woman andPerce and Gert. quite grown up. When I think of you all, itis as I knew you when I left, -Gertie a bonny little girl, Perce inshort pants and Ruby a young girl. I have to close now, dearestMother, as it is getting very late.Keep on smiling through your tears,and pray that God will bringus both back home to you safe and sound of limb to the welcomewhich we know awaits us. Fondest love from Your affectionate son,Jim