Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena CampCairo EgyptDate: 4 April 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo, Egypt.4th April 1915.Dearest Mother & all at Home,Just a line to let youknow that we have finished our training here, and areabout to leave for the Front & nothing could give memore infinite joy than to tell you this glorious news.Most of the Infantry & Light Horse have lefthere & the first portion of the Artillery leave here firstthing tomorrow morning. We are only taking rationsfor two days so we expect to land in the Dardanellesor some other handy place & there pick upthe remainder of the Allied Forces under the commandof General Sir Ian Hamilton. We are to go awaywith every vehicle crammed full of shells & 50 roundsof rifle ammunition are to be carried on every man, &as we have been told that we will probably landunder fire, we are full of joyous expectancy.Every one of us is quite a different man & areas keen as mustard since the news came.I have promised myself to lay & fire the firstshot against the enemy, who ever they are.We have clipped all our horses this week & Imight state that I have become an expert handat the game, as I did quite a number in my "Sub". Well, Mother, I am sorry to tell you that someof the Maoris & New Zealanders & a few Australiansplayed up in Cairo the other night, & several housesof ill fame were burnt to the ground. The militarypolice charged the crowd & several people wereinjured. All leave has since been stopped & ofcourse, this was to be expected. Most of the menwho took part in the Riot belonged to the newlyarrived contingents, as the first lot were all outon bivouac that night. We spent Easter very quiet& had a holiday on Good Friday. The meals wereas usual, very plain so we went to a cook shoprun by an English woman, in Camp, & had a jollygood feed for 5 piastres (1/-). Well, Mother, I haven'tany more news at present as I wrote a longletter last week. I will try & write as often as Ican to you, but we expect everything to pass throughcensor, so I will not be able to say much.I will now assure you all that I am atpresent about to enter in the joy of my life, & one ofmy highest wishes have been gratified.So with the best of love to you all atHome Sweet Home. I remainYour loving and happy SonNorman. I hope to meet ourGeorge at the Frontsooner or laterNormanDon't forget the dinnerwhen we come home, Mum