Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Lowland Convalescent HospitalDate: 9 November 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & all at Home,Just a line tolet you know that I am still progressingfavourably & as you can see by theabove address, that they have movedme. It is only 100 yards or so from theother hospital I was in, but we havebeen sent here to await the boat &also to make room for other Entericpatients as they are pressed for room.I missed the Mauretania afterall, through them changing the Drsjust when Scott had sorted out hispatients who were to go away & thenew chap said that he did notwant any patients sent away forat least a week so that he mightbecome acquainted with their condition so this settles us for the MauretaniaThen we were told that AustralianEnterics dont go to England, but overto Alexandria & then home to Australia& then when we got here, we were toldthat we were being sent to Englandon the Aquitania a sister shipto the Luisitania & she is expectedin here to-day. Of course she is anhospital boat & can carry 1700patients, but who to believe asto where we are going, I dont know.Some say that Enterics aresent home, others say that theygo to England & then used forhome defence, & others say that noEnterics are allowed to go to theFront again. The latter wastold me by an R. A. M. C. sergeantso if he is right, then Ive finished With Johnnie Turk, but goodnessonly knows what they will dowith us, anyhow I am going awayfor a long spell somewhere sothe Colonel of the 18th Stationaryhospital told me, & everythingpoints to the Aquitania & eitherMalta or England. If I get thechance of coming back home toMelbourne, Ill take it, you bet,& if they should do this, Ill try& cable to you & let you knowwhat boat I am coming on.I have about 25 owing to meso I can draw this as soon asI get to a base depot, so amflush for money.I hope you are not worryingabout me. I have been inHospital 6 weeks, & am feeling very weak which is only to be expected,but other-wise Im feeling quitefit, so please dont worry, as Imay be coming home soon (who knows)How are you all at home?I am always thinking of you all.How I long to see you all. I onlyhope the time is not far distant whenIll be back with you all againI have had no mail for a long& have only been able to write homeso would be obliged if you wouldgive any of my friends news of me& explain why I havent written.Best love to all relations Etc &to dear Mab, Rupert, Chas, George,Floss an extra ration & a doublewhack for your dear selffrom your loving sonNorman.A..Merry Xmas to all.