Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Gaba TepeGallipoli Peninsular Turkey Date: 25 July 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:My Dearest Mother & all at Home,Just a line to let you knowthat I am still in the best of health & having a good time.I am pleased to say that I have just received anothernice long letter from you, but so far there is none fromMab or any papers yet, but I have no doubt that all themail is not yet sorted & delivered, so will hope to get themtomorrow or the next day.Well, as you will see by the same address above,we have not been driven into the sea, by the Turks, altho'we go in for a swim every night, but this is purely ourown inclination, altho' they often drive us out of the sea bythe way of 4.5 inch Shrapnel from their guns in the OliveGroves, but no body minds.Our position is very safe here now & the wholeplace is simply bristling with Howitzers & they give the Turksno peace what ever, & continue to shell their trenches throughthe night at irregular intervals & during the day as well.Bomb & Grenade throwing is very much indulged in byboth Turks & our people, but we preponder over them inthis respect also, & so do not give them any peace at all. I do not think that the turn out here will lastso very long after all. The British & French are graduallygetting closer to us & once they get the Turks over the ridge,there is a British Gun-boat waiting to make their acquaintancewith 6 inch broadsides. Submarines & Torpoedos arequite unable to make any impression whatever on this boat.so she is here to stay. "Busy Bertha" , a small highvelocity gun of the Turks has just opened fire on uswith high explosive shell, but we don't take any noticeof it, as it is only a scheme to try & draw our fire.You will be pleased to know that my gun, 1169,is again in Action after here second hiding & is patchedup with parts of other damaged guns, but can stillshoot straight & bark as loud as ever. It is a greatrelict & where it is returned to Melbourne & the publicsee it, they will get an idea what Artillery men arecalled on to face. We shall be newly equipped when wego on to tackle & finish the Germans, which will not belong, as we were all told something pretty good the otherday by our Colonel. Won't it be great eh, Mother, to "mop up"the Germans before returning to Australia. We will have ourtrip to England after all, so if I get a chance, I will runout to Gravesend to see the Cole's.The leading article of the "Argus" which you sent inyour letter, reads very well, & the boys are delighted to think that their efforts are appreciated at home.Every body here wonders what the "stay-at-homes" willsay when our chaps return. They do not realise what anhonour & chance they are missing by not enlisting.The boys here would not change places with thehealthiest & wealthiest of them. We notice that thepapers are full of Marriages, Engagements Etc, & thegeneral opinion here is, that the bounders are onlygetting married to dodge going to War. The girlsencourage them & it is easily in their power to makethese "coots" enlist, if they only would. I am afraidthat there will be some very hard words passed betweenthe Soldiers & "Stay-at-homes" when the War is over.Now for the Home news. Well Mother, it is with greatsatisfaction to know that the House has been paid for. I'msure it must be great consolation to you & a great relief as well.I was wondering, Mother, if everything goes well, if youwere to sell the House & take a smaller & much newer housesomewhere about, between Middle Park & St Kilda I should say.It would be much easier & cleaning would be considerablyreduced & we could get somebody to do the work, & you wouldbe able to take the well earned rest that you should have hadyears ago. Don't you think it is a good idea. Our old house ispretty well "jiggered" now, & it takes no end of labour to keep inorder, altho' no one can say it never looked spotless, & inviting. Of course, I am thinking of this plan to save labour& to only have the actual members of our family living, orperhaps Floss Robbie might be the only exception, as shewould be able to keep Mabel from getting married Etc., eh.Well anyhow, a nice little 6 Roomed house with anup to date kitchen & bathroom, & the Ellsworth family insidewhats wrong with it, eh.Now back again to Turkey Etc., all our Drivers & othermen who are not Gunners, are in Alexandria with thehorses. Braithwaite & Jack Hall are there, too. & so havenot had their baptism of fire yet. I sent a to myGun lead Driver to amuse himself with & also to sendme some writing materiel & envelopes. To day, by themail, I got 6 writing Pads & millions of Envelopes, soI'll not need the handy piece & envelope which yousent to me weekly any more, or for the present anyhow.I suppose you've heard or seen in my previousletters about Yardley (poor chap) His nerve is quite gone& will not go near a Guns, so he has had to be transferredto some other Unit & sent to Alexandria. I spoke to him,encouraged him, reminded him of the rest of his Subsection,& roused him, & he had a good chance of returning to hisGun, but "No", he would not come at it, & so he has losthis chance. I cannot think what his Parents will sayto him, but for goodness sake, don't mention it to them. Men must be prepared to see things here, & somevery disagreeable ones too, & we have seen them too, butone must simply look another way & carry on withthe job. Why, when my gun was out of Action thefirst time, my sub & myself were sent out buryingsoldiers who had been dead for weeks & they don'thalf smell either, its alright digging a hole for them, eventho' the bullets do fly around, but I had to undo theirclothes & search for the Identity disc & Pay book, & the bodieswere that swollen & rotten that their clothes are bursting atthe seams. We work with handkerchiefs around our noses& can get a hole deep enough to put him in, and then we hooka couple of drag ropes around his ankles and drag him in& chop his arms in & fill up lively. The stench is simplyunbearable when they are moved from where they dropped,& speed at "filling in" is essential. One of my Gunners &myself had a bullet pass right between us as we were bothdigging in the same hole, so that was close enough, eh.Well, something more cheerful; Dowsett is gettingtransferred to Brigade Staff, we hear, as Warrant Officers sopromotion has started at last.You will p be pleased to know that we have hadno casualties for a long time, & also to know that our chapsthat have been wounded before, are all getting better and are itching to get back & join us. Tell JackTilton that Jack Heywood has quite recovered & is back inCamp at Alexandria with the others. Also tell him thatGibson & McConville have both arrived here & are attachedto the Ammunition Column.We do fairly well for food here altho' some nice greenfresh vegetables would be very pleasant & a nice change,however, we cook a favourite dish of boiled potatoes &onions, mash them up, open a tin of bully beef & mix itall-togeth & fry in a "dixie" lid, & after this, finish up witha tin of preserved fruit, & cocoa to drink.The fruit & cocoa is not issued to us but bought overat Imbros by some of our chaps who went over there fora short holiday of 4 or 5 days.I was very pleased to read that Ruperts' foot had gotbetter. Tell him to write to me sometimes, and let me knowwhat class he is in at school & how he is getting onat the Sloyd Class.I am pleased to know that May Tilton haspassed & is coming away; I hope to meet her in mytravels.How are all at Winchelsea? Give them mylove & let them know that I often think of them all.Percy Wells is still with the Battery, & was herewith us for a week or two at first, but he was sentback with the horses to Alexandria, as they were not wanted. Innoculation against Cholera is still being carriedout extensively on our troops & we have all just hadthe second injection performed on us.I say, Mother, if there are any wealthy relationsyou can think of in England, just let me know, & I'lllook them up, when we go there, & see if I can't persuadethem to remember us "Kindly".Respirators & Gas helmets have been issued to everyone of the troops here, in case the Turks use gas on us.We don't half look characters in our helmets either,doing Gas drill, but they are positively effective againstasphyxiating Gasses, so we don't mind what we look like.Did you get my last letter? If so, please don'tforget to send along the little "medicine chest" as it willbe very welcome, altho' we are all in fairly good health,but sometimes we feel "liverish" for a day or two, & thismakes us feel that we want a little pick-me-up.I got a letter from Ruby Davidsons father tellingme of her being very seriously ill with Measles, but isnow getting much better. Did I tell you before that theDavidson family sent me a gold "Swastika" to wear sothat good-luck would attend me always; well anyhowI wear it around my neck on the cord of my identitydisc & it is quite an object of great interest to the bigIndian Mountain Battery Gunners, who always look at it. Reading matter is very scarce here & any old paper iseagerly grabbed up & read even tho' it is months old.Speaking of the comforts, Etc, which the women folk aremaking at home for the soldiers at the front. We havenot had a single extra of any description outside ourordinary rations since we came on Active service, so,who are getting these comforts, Etc, don't you think it is worthmaking a few enquiries & a few questions might be askedfor the Members of Parliament to answer. I expect itis the chaps who stop back at the Base who get allthe luxuries & no or very little work to do. The lazy"cows" are too darned lazy to send our mail along regular.There are a lot of fat jobs sticking out at these BaseDepots, & all the wasters which hang around are alwaysgiven the preference for them, & the poor chaps who dothe fighting get nothing in this respect. (Look out now)I am told that I am to be promoted to the rankof Battery Sergeant Major & to be transferred to theAmmunition Column. Of course, the promotion isalright, but leaving the dear old 4th Battery hurts verymuch, but they told me I would simply have to goor I would not get promotion. It means that I willbe with the Column until a Battery job is vacant.If I refuse this, I am told that they will not be intoo much of a hurry to offer me the chance again, so I think I'll avail myself of the opportunity, but atthe same time I'll keep a sharp look out for one of thosegood easy fat jobs (14/- per day) that are kicking about.If my promotion is confirmed, then my pay willbe 12/6 per day instead of 10/6 as I get at present,so I'll probably draw another 6' per day here formyself & the other 1/6' can go to you. This will give mea little more to spend in England & France where weare going to, in probably a fortnights time as ColonelJohnston told us on Wednesday last. A new divisionwho is relieving us, is now at Lemnos & the Howitzersare doing all the work here now; These are part ofKitcheners New Army. Well, I have quite a lot ofback pay to draw. We have not been paid since the6th May, so I should have a fair purse to draw whenwe get back to Alexandria and I have 2 still in mybelt, & I've just reconed up in my pay book that upto 28th of this month (July) I've got owing to me 10..15.0& by the time I get to England it will increase, I shouldsay, up to 20 so this will give me a fair start, eh.That is, adding the 6' extra on after I get the job.My pay book says now that I've drawn 24/12/6 up till the4th May from 4th December, so you can reckon up & see if I am right. We expectto stay in Alexandria for a month or so & refit, & there isno place to spend ones money there like Cairo, so Im righto. This letter is long on account of several reasons.First, we don't do any shooting, altho' we are alwaysstanding by, & we have 500 rounds of ammunitionper gun, but the country here is no good for 18 poundershrapnel & as Kitcheners Howitzers have arrived fromEngland, & are in position, they are the only peoplewho can hurt the entrenched Turks, & they keepthem going all day & best part of the night. Secondly,Ive got tons of writing paper; Thirdly I've got a fountainpen; & Fourthly Ive got the time & inclination, so Ihope Ive not bored you. I hope the public will notthink we've gone on strike, but the British & French havehad a much harder job than they expected, & it is notthe least bit of good us pushing on until they comeup, & not only that, but we have no battleships hereto bombard the place, as they all cleared out whenthe "Triumph" & "Majestic" were sunk, altho' now, theya fixing a false concrete bottom on some old Gunboats & sending them out, & submarines cannotmake the least impression on them. In the recenttests held, one of these boats was struck by 6 differenttorpoedoes & could not sink her, so these will be ofgreat assistance when they arrive. Also some ofthe flat bottomed Monitors with 14 inch howitzershave arrived & these are for the forts on the Asiatic side. Our Australian boys here are funny, they fight inshort nicker pants (turned inside out on account of lice)& a pair of boots & a hat. Nothing else on, no shirtor singlet or socks, & they are burnt black withthe hot sun. The Navy beach party cannot makethem out at all; They simply stare at them inamazement. The Indian Gunners also regard themwith a certain amount of curiosity, because theyare always dressed up in all their "rigout".I must tell you now how my Gun got put outof action the second time, as this letter is not goingthro' the censor. It was in the roofed in Pit & 3 gunnerswere sleeping under it, & at 4.15am one day, abig 8 inch shell from the Maidos fort came thro' theroof & hit the shield & right gun wheel & burst.How the men escaped with their lives, goodnessonly knows, but they were asleep when it lobbed,& staggered out blindly into the trench, practicallyunhurt, altho' suffering with concussion. I rushed upinto the pit & the place was in a terrible mess. Blanketswaterproof sheets, mens clothing, & smoke, & fumes simplypredominated. As soon as the fumes got out, I couldsee that the Gun & carriage were simply knocked rotten.The wheel was smashed to splinters, the shield was torn to ribbons, the axle bent like wire & the trail& trunnions have been strained; It was out of Actionfor a fortnight, but Fred Conradi, our fitter sergeant,got to work & fixed it up, & it is barking as loudas ever now. (Poor old 1169, Little Liz, her second wallop.)All our Guns have great gaping holes in theshields where shells have come through, but nonehave had such a bad time as my gun, so I'mnot only very proud of it, but it will be simplytreasured when it gets back to Melbourne.I would like to say, now that I have the opportunity,something about the earlier events of the Landing of theAustralians here; First of all, too much credit has beengiven to the Light Horse, who did not land here until3 weeks after the position was won. Secondly, Thework of the New Zealanders can in no way be comparedwith that of the Australian Brigades. Thirdlywhy has there been no mention of the work of theField Artillery. We have been here since the firstday (25th April) & have done a tremendous amount ofshooting & most of our guns have fired over 3,000 roundseach, & we have lost some of our bravest men inAction, yet we are not mentioned. We have putmost of the Turks guns out of Action with direct hits. One day, the 4th Battery were ordered to openfire on the Turks trenches at 1 o'clock & keep it up.For over an hour, all the Turks Guns concentratedon to our two Guns, & yet we were not allowed toswitch our fire on to them, even tho' we could seethem, & not another Gun in our Division openedfire on the Turks, but stood & watched the unequalfight. One of our Guns was hit at last & the layerwas completely disembowelled & the top of his headblown clean off, whilst the No 2 of the detachmenthad his left leg so badly shattered that it hassince been amputated.We were told the next day that the Batteryhad been recommended for Gallantry & that twoD.C.Ms had been awarded to the Battery. Themen were chosen who were to get them, & now we havebeen told that, "no D.C.Ms are available, but theirgood work had been recorded". (Rotten isn't it, eh.)When our Infantry first landed, almostall of their Officers were shot down, & yet the menwent on despite the fact they had no one to leadthem, & they won; Their casualties after the first3 days fighting was over 13,000 : not 1300. Howsthat eh, out of a force of 30,000. What wouldthe people of Australia have said if the number had been cabled out telling the truth, instead of5 died of wounds, 21 missing Etc. Then after this, the2nd Infantry Brigade (Victoria) were withdrawn from here,& taken down to Cape Helles in Destroyers, & givena job to do there that no other soldiers would do& they did it, but what was the cost, 1200 lostin 2 hours, (5pm till 7pm) Everybody marvelled downthere at them, but our Boys can carry any positionhere if they are asked to, but now, the Staff wontlet them do any big jobs, as they have lost"too many fine soldiers" as they say, but our boyssay "they will not be far away when there issomething doing".The Turks use a very peculiar bullet, it is verysharp pointed, has a thin coat of nickel & as soon as ittouches anything, the nickel coat bursts & flys off, & whatis inside makes a nasty hole in anyone.Sometimes, I take a walk up into the InfantryTrenches, & what a maze there are too; Every few yardsapart is a machine gun & further off is a sharpshooterwith a Periscope Rifle, this allows him to shoot at anything over the other side without exposing himself. It isa splendid invention & was though out by an AustralianInfantryman, who has since been sent to England to improve it In the trenches one can hear the bullets lob with avery vicious "thud" against the sand bags in front & itgives one an idea what it is like to be up close to anenemy Rifle, of whom are only 3 & 400 yards from our TrenchesThe Japanese have lent our troops 4 TrenchMortars, which are just like a miniature cannon &it fires an explosive which has the destructive powerequivalent to a 6 inch shell. The Japs lent them tous on the condition that "we made no attempt tofind out what the bursting charge consists of", & weare strictly carring out their wish.It is remarkable to see our chaps when theysee a Turkish bomb coming thro' the air, they stand& watch it coming right towards them & wait forit to burst, & yet make no attempt to dodge it inany way at all, & simply regard it as they woulda cracker. It seems to fascinate one to see them comingthro' the air at night.I forgot to tell you, I went thro all theunderground tunnels which the Engineers have dugunder the Turks trenches, & they reach & wind inall directions, & when I was down one, I couldhear the Turks digging & scraping in their trenchesWhen the time is ripe, our Engineers are are going to put a big enough charge ofGuncotton in each "Sap" & "up goes the unspeakableTurk", then the Artillery gets to work with timeShrapnel & catch them on the run.Oh' about going to England; Colonel Johnston toldMajor Phillips to tell his men that, "we would not takepart in the big battle that is shortly coming off, as thenew English & Scottish howitzer batteries which arrivedhere shortly, (there are 6 batteries of them, 5 inch, & throwa 60 pound lyddite shell) would do all the work, butwe would have a stand by to catch the Turks in theopen. After this we were to be withdrawn, go to Alexandriarefit, le then go on to England & then on to France; Thisis the honest truth, he said, (Are we down hearted?)Well, Mother, dear, I must draw this long epistleto a close; I think I've said more than I ought toin places, but the truth is always welcome.I hope everybody is well. Give my kind regardsto all kind enquirers. My best love to allrelations & an extra ration all around to theEllsworth family (may they live for ever) & not forgettingFlos Robbie, Jack Tilton, Miss Taylor, & any others I'vemissed Believe me to beYour affectionate Son Norman(always merry & bright) about the Landingat GallipoliJuly 25th 1915. P.S. one of our Australian Light Horseboys said, after the last bayonet charge to Gen BirdwoodGive me a good stock whip & decent fast pony &I'll clear the Peninsular in 5 minutes /Tell George not to be bashful, come along.I'll keep a look out for him.