Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Gallipoli Peninsular TurkeyDate: 20 June 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & all at Home,Just a line to let you know that weare all quite will & getting along famously. Things are very quietnow & we do very little shooting as the Turks wont come at itat all now, & if they do open up, they are soon glad to shutup again. Since my gun (1169) has been repaired & put intoAction again, she put a Turkish gun out of action with adirect hit on to it, so you see, "Little Liz" as we call her, isstarting to avenge the "doing" she got on the 7th May.The boys of my subsection are all in great fettle &are no trouble whatever. All our other gunners, including the1st Reinforcements, are with us now, & my Corporal, who wasback at Alexandria with the horses & Drivers, is also withme, so this relieves me of a lot of responsibility & is alsothe best of Company, too.I am sorry to tell you that our last two Mailsfrom Victoria, have gone astray, & whilst other units havegot theirs, the poor old Artillery boys have to go cadgingfor news.I suppose it is winter in Melbourne now, & I supposeIce Skating is in full swing. How I wish I could get off for aweek or two & tear off home & back again, my word, I wouldhave a lot to tell you about Australian soldiers. The Navy have nothing but praise for them & a Warrant Officeroff one of the Battleships asked one of our Colonels "What doyou Australians do when there is no war". This same chapwas on the beach when the first boat load of Infantrygot ashore, & he said that he actually saw a manjump out of the boat into 5 feet of water, & when hecame up, he was "fixing his bayonet" on. Hows that, eh.If you could only see the nature of the country weare in & the difficult places we have got our guns intoposition, you would be astonished. Only those whovisit this place after the war (Authors, Etc.) & ourselves, willknow what our brave Infantry went through on thatmemorable Sunday 25th April 1915. I do hope the CasualtyLists will not have a f depressing effect on Volunteeringin Australia, because we need every possible man thatcan come & at the earliest convenience. There have beentwo Distinguished Conduct Medals won by our battery,so this should be some impetus for recruiting.Well Mother, dear, we are not allowed to say muchas the censor is very strict, so will close now, assuring youthat I am in the very best of Nick & hoping you are allthe same Believe me to be J Meformarkewith the very best of love to you allYour affectionate sonNorman P.S. Have just received your latest letter & 2 from Mab& parcel of Sox (dated 5th May) very many thanks with love fromNorman.Tell Mab, that I'll give her a bangle madeout of a driving band off a Turkishshell, that lobbed near my gun,when I come homeThey are the rage hereNorm. The British have been bombarding theTurkish trenches for 18 hours & are still at it."Finish Turk" (this is what the Indians say)