Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Anzac Gaba TepeGallipoli PeninsulaDate: 11 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & all at Home,Just a line to letyou know that I received another budget of lettersfrom "Home Sweet Home" today, & my joy knows nobounds as you can easily imagine, but so farthe parcel has not arrived, but I have no doubtthat it will come alright, as the parcels gethere usually a day or two later than the letters.You say that you heard we have to pay onparcels we get here; This is not the case & we havealways got everything alright I had to pay nothing.I am glad to tell you that those of us who havebeen here since April, are going on a short holidayof a fortnight, tomorrow, to Lemnos, & we arevery thankful too, as some of us, or nearly allare feeling "run down" somewhat, & the changewill do us good. We do not expect to be relieveduntil the new Artillery Brigades arrive, but wewill have no difficulty of carrying on untilthey come, but at the same time, we are eagerlylooking forward to being relieved. I suppose you got a surprise in my last letter toknow that I intended to apply for a transfer tothe D. A. C., but so far I haven't done much inthe matter, & I find that there may be somedifficulty in getting this, so I don't care very muchif nothing comes of it. Anyhow, I am quite full upof the 4th & most of the others are too, at the waythings are going on. Since our Major went awayfor a holiday (Officers have no difficulty in thisrespect) things have been simply disgraceful,& the other "Officers"? are promoting their "fancy" men,hence Moon being made Sgt Major, whilst the otherappointments are anything but satisfactory, so youcan quite see why we are anxious to get into anotherUnit. Dowsett has applied for a transfer to theBritish Field Artillery, as he is too disgusted withthe way things are going on. I have been transferredtemporarily to the Ammunition Column to act asSergeant Major, all their Sergeants have got othergood jobs or Commissions, & I have been sentdown to do the dirty work of clearing up theOffice work, a thing I know nothing about& in the present state of health I am in, Idon't feel equal to doing the job, & I have toldthe Colonel that, if I don't have a spell soonthat I'll simply bust up altogether, so he saidthat if I went away for this holiday, I would probably lose the chance of being madeColumn Sgt Major, so I told him I would ratherforfeit the Sgt Majors job & take the holiday, soI will probably be sent back the the Batteryafter my holiday. Pretty rough, isn't it, eh.However I'm not growling, Mum, & don't letit worry you, because I may finish up bybeing made a good old Trumpeter again, anyhowI would be better off if I was, & I would berelieved of the responsibility of looking after others.There is one thing certain, I can never do office work,& the Column Sgt Major does nothing else, & you knowthat "Returns, Reports, Accounts, Bookkeeping, Figures,Etc, Etc, are not in my line, & never was, & never willbe, so I am certain I do not want to get this job.Why you would have your son Norman as gray as abadger in a week if he did take it on, so I'msimply keeping my eyes open for "something to turn up"The C.O. down here advised me to try and getan extended holiday when I get to Lemnos, & tosee a Dr there & let him know how I feel, sothat was decent of him, wasn't it.Continue to address my letters to 4th Batteryno matter what Unit I am attached to for thepresent, because I will be with the 4th on myreturn.Well, Mum, lets change the subject. I sayI hope there is something in that advertisement for the Ellsworths to communicate with a Londonsolicitor about something to our advantage. If it istrue, then I will apply for my discharge & tear offto England & transact the necessary business.Am glad to know that Jack Tilton is coming away, itwill make a man of him. Will also keep a lookout for May Tilton too. I suppose she is here somewhere.What unit is Ernie Watson coming away with? don'tsay the Army Medical Corps for goodness sake. Heshould be in a good bayonet charge to really enjoy it.Everything is much the same here otherwise as whenI last wrote, still in the same position, & theusual rifle fire & bomb throwing at night and alittle artillery fire by day, monotonous isn't it.Tell Rupert I am very glad to get his nice letter& that he enjoyed the Party, & I hope he is a good boy toGrandma & gets her messages nicely. How is he getting on atschool ? Tell Mab, she is a sport for bringing homethe wounded chap to dinner. (Just like her.)How is Floss Robbie? give her my love & tell herto look after Mab alright for me (Cheeky aint I)How is Charls family? Give them my love. Alsohow is Aunt Carrie & family, Aunt Hannah, all ofWinchelsea, Lacks, Ellsworths at Ballarat, Mr &Mrs Joe Avery & others who I've not mentioned.Give my love to them all & tell them I've not forgottenthem. Tell George to write soon, & I hope he iswell. Mrs & Ruby Davidson continue to showme great kindness. They send me boot laces, writing materiel & are now knittingsocks for me. "Bless their kindness, they can't do enough for me, it seems. I reallydon't know how to thank them for it all. Well Mother dear, I think I've toldyou all the news this week so will close with the fondest love fromyour loving son Norman (Hope your eyes are well). Tell George not to forget tosend me along a PocketFlash Lamp & spare Batteryplease, & I'll settle upwith him on my returnNorman