Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England Regiment: 1st Divisional ArtilleryDate: 5 February 1917 Nationality: Australian Text: My Dearest Mother, & all at Home,Just a line againthis week, as there is not much news.Our bad luckis still keeping us close company, & a lot of ourhorses are down with mange, & ringworm, andother ailments, & are therefore in strict Isolation,& we have to do our work with scratch 4 horseteams, which doesn't give the drivers their propertraining, and then again the so-called officersin the battery who we have to put up with arealmost unbearable at times.I get absolutely noassistance from Major Harris, who since he wasinvested with the D.S.O, lives away in War-Minster with his Wife, & he has taken a horsefor himself, & one for his wife, & the consequenceis, that the battery loses his services, & also thatof 2 horses & further, I have to send aforage wagon into Warminster every 4 days,with 4 days of forage for them.With regard to ournext in Command (Lieut Dyke) well, he is justthe limit. He is only recently over fromAustralia, knows nothing of our work, & everything he tampers with, he makes amess of, as well as making me wild.Whilstmy Q.M. Sgt was away for a few days, hewent into the store, & messed up all the clothing ledgers & issued clothing which he had no rightto, & the consequence is, Lockyer, (the Q.M.S.)has done nothing but swear, & to get drunksince he returned. On a mountedparade, the gives wrong signals, & gets allthe teams in a devil of a mess, & then I haveto get things right. The other day, he thoughthe would be funny, & send D.O Wickens &myself away with the rest of the spare horseson exercise, & he practised a few fancymanoevers of his own during our absence, &when we returned, the drivers told us somelovely stories of his doings, & the way he gotmessed up. I am best part of theday checking him in his errors, & advisinghim what to do, but the bald headed oldidiot (he is only 30) thinks he knows better.Whenhe has a man up for Orderly room for a minoroffence, such as late on Parade, he hits thepoor beggar very hard, but when he hasa confirmed scoundrel who has been A.W.Lfor weeks, he lets him off with a caution.Only today, we had a chap up for atrivial offence, & I said that "admonishment"would meet the case, but the "fathead" must"back" the poor chap with 7 days L.P. No.2, &without pay.As for coming in to action, wellI won't say anything about that, except thatif I wasn't with him, the Lord only knowswhich way the guns would point, and Ihave to give all the orders myself, otherwisethere would be no shooting, & he is an Officer. We had General Brunker, the Inspector ofR. H and R. F Artillery to see us to-day, &I had the work of the world to prevent himdoing the wrong thing everytime, it reallyis very exasperating to me at times, andthe men are all talking of him, too, andthey are always cursing him for his wrongorders, & men are peculiar creatures tohandle especially when they have no con-fidence in their officers.When it comes toworking out angles etc, with directors &plotters, I can only compare his wanderingslike a drunken man trying to find hishouse on a dark night when all houseslook alike, & you must try & imaginehow I stand & watch him try & workthe instrument, & when he has thoroughlygot himself & instrument tangled up, &the most outrageous angles calculated,then I say, "Oh for the Lords sakelet me work the thing". So youcan see how very little encouragement it isfor me to work my hardest. and yetI am not sufficiently educated for thecommissioned rank.If he gets command ofa section (2 guns) in France, I'm sure thathe'll not only kill a lot of our Infantry,but he'll get his own men killed beforehe fires a shot that takes effect in theenemys territory.I really cannotunderstand why such people get thecommissioned rank now-a-days. No doubt you will all say "Oh! Jake hasgot a touch of liver this week". Wellreally, I haven't, but I'm getting "fedup" of carrying these "passengers". I donot mind instructing men, its myjob, but I do not see why I shouldhave to train so called Officers. If Iwas not a capable Warrant Officer, thenI would not wear the Crown on myright arm, but these Officers(?) onlythink of men saluting them in the streets,& buying chocolates for silly girls & takingthem for taxi (joy) rides.I can tell youthat there are some funny looking thingsdressed up in Officer uniforms now-a-days.Well, I'll change the subject.What do you think of America now?Very near time they did something isnt it?Fritz is in for a very rotten time thisyear, & the guns & munitions are just pouringinto France. What oh! when we start.The snow has fallen heavily herelast Sunday, & the whole place lookslovely, but it hampers training a little.I do hope you are all well. Ireceived some papers & "Table Talks" latelyThanks very much for them, they re good.I haven't got the parcels yet, but"never say die".Again hoping you areall well, & with fondest love to you allI amYour loving Son, Norman. Still address Mail etcto Gravesend.N.116TH HOWITZER BATTERY5th February 1917.1ST DIVL, ARTILLERY, AUS.No 1 Boyton CampCodford; WiltsEngland.