Author: Norman Griffiths EllsworthLocation: Mena CampCairo EgyptDate: 24 March 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Dearest Mother & all at HomeJust a line to let you knowthat I received another of your & Mabs welcome lettersyesterday & am very pleased to know that you are allwell & I can assure you that I have never enjoyed betterhealth in all my life & I am in much better condition thanwhen I was in Melbourne on account of the work & alsowalking through the loose sand, to say nothing of the plainfood as well. I have a splendid little horse to ride now& he is considered to be one of the fastest horses in the Battery.His name is Horace (Horry, for short.) Nearly all theboys have trained their horses to lie down for them, &some can even crawl through their legs whilst theylie still. We are still a busy lot & are capable ofdoing all kinds of work including building rafts forfloating Guns & Wagons across rivers, Etc. We expect toleave here shortly for the Dardanelles, & the latest wehave heard is, that General Sir Ian Hamilton has arrivedat Alexandria & is to take charge of the Allied Forces which consists of French Cavalry & Infantry, Indian Troops & Australian& New Zealand Army Corps (about 150,000 all told) to startoperations in Turkey, so we are in the highest spirits. A lot of the French Troops have already arrived in Alexand-ria & our people are being shifted to there by degrees, sowe should soon be enjoying ourselves in the thick ofthe brawl. To day, I was sent for by Col Johnson& offered the job of Sergeant Major in a Unit in the 2ndContingent, but at the same time, he asked me not toaccept it, as promotion in the Battery would comesoon enough to me, so I declined the Promotion onhis advice. I do not think it was selfish on his part,but he wants to keep us all together & does notthink he should train N.C.Os for other Units, becausewhat we have learnt about Gunnery Etc, would beof no use to us whatever in the other Units. Hetold me that he was surprised of the progress I had madesince I had given up the Trumpets. I am perfectlysatisfied with my present rank & position & MajorPhillips told Col Johnson that he did not want tolose me, so I have every reason to be pleased withmyself.I am pleased to read that the House is nearlypaid for, & is, I hope, by now. If you should be inany difficulty about Rates or Taxes, you have mypermission to use any money of mine for the purpose,& dont think it will make me short when I returnfor I have no intentions, whatever, of looking forany other home or entering in the bonds of matrimony. I havequite made up my mind on this score, so you can relyon this statement of mine. I have never given anygirl any encouragement in this line whatever, butthe girl Cutler is, I am afraid, making it ratherwarm by writing every week to me & I have found itnecessary to gradually cease writing to her in order toconvince her that I am still of the same mind aswhen I told her, shortly before I left Melbourne, that Iwanted her to look elsewhere. She is a very decentlittle girl & all that sort of thing & I have a certainamount of admiration for her but nothing else whatever, so I hope, Mother & Mab that you will notencourage her to come to the house to any extent,because I know that she is a girl that needs little orno encouragement, altho she does it inoffensivelyenough, to try and form a stronger acquaintance. Theother girl, Nellie Wheeler, I have only written to onceor twice, & I have only got one letter from her & thatwas addressed to King Georges Sound, so you willsee by this, that there is nothing doing here. Mr, Mrs& Ruby Davidson have been very good to me & sendme a letter occasionly & in one, was a gold Swastikaabout the size of a sovereign, asking me to wear it insidemy jacket as a token of Good Luck, so I have attached it to the cord of my Identity Disc, so it has to staythere now, as it is a crime to remove these Discs now.I can also assure you that there is nothing doinghere also, as they have too much "boodle" for me.I havent sent any photos of mine to the girl Cutler& I hope you havent given her one of those I sent to you.I hope you will not be bored by all this stuff &nonsense, but I want you to know what my intentionsare & how I am situated in these little matters &I know that it will relieve your feelings as well as mine.I know that when I return that my wages at theMint would still be 48/- a week & the price of livingwill be very high for many months after the war isover, altho there is no reason why it should be so,except that the Tradesmen have that excuse for puttingup the price of everything & therefore we must all looktowards a fairly stiff pull for a while anyhow. Sojust have the little bed in the corner of the boysroom & a tin of Cove Oysters & some fried ony Onionsfor supper on the first night I return.I am glad to say that Jack Hall is better &is now out of Hospital & working like a Tojan to makeup for lost time; He sends his kind regards to all at home. All the other boys are well. Braithwaite is still thesame old Harry & is generally late getting up in themorning & late to meals. He tells us it was just thesame at Home with him.Fred Conradi is still the same sterling Fred& is always doing odd jobs for everybody in the Battery.Adams has got bad news from home as hisFather is playing up & is on the booze & this has madethe poor kid as miserable as a bandycoot.Dowsett still gets the nasties & makes everyone feel uncomfortable at times. He is down in thedumps because of one his Staff mates has been senthome unfit for service & this chaps wife is stayingwith Mrs Dowsett, so I suppose he thinks this chapwill be taking Mrs Dowsett out for walks.The 8th & 9th & 10th Light Horse & other units havearrived here & are beginning to settle down. They are afine lot of chaps.Well Mother & Mab, I've bored you this weekquite enough with all this rot, but promise that itwill be different next week so with fondest loveto all & an extra ration for yourselves.I remainYour loving son & brotherNorman.Love to FlossWe are going to hear theBishop of Jerusalem preach next week. MotherThis letter, or portion thereof, is of a private tone & I wouldask you not to read it, or show itto any body but yourself & Mab.Destroy it when read please. Norman