Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena CampCairo EgyptDate: 6 March 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & all at Home.Another line to let youknow that I am in the best of good health & thoroughlyenjoying myself altho', I am sorry to say, we have notdone any fighting yet, but hope to very shortly.We are open to fight anybody: Black or White,& we hope to go to Turkey, as the fighting will suitus better as it will be more open & than all thisunderground business that they are doing in France.An Australian generally likes to see the chap heis fighting & we hope to deal out an extraordinary amountof "stoush" to the Turk, if we go there.I told you in my last letter about the terriblelies Capt Bean ( correspondent) had published aboutthe conduct of the Troops in Cairo, in the "Argus",well, he has had such a bad time this week fromofficers & men that he has found it necessary to senda cablegram to Australia quite the contrary to theprevious one he sent, so I hope the people ofAustralia will not believe his rotten lies anylonger, because the general conduct of all ranks(altho I say it myself) is exemplary. It is gradually getting warmer here & the fliesare beginning to get very troublesome & persistent.We have been doing a lot of night manoevres &so of course are getting used to 3 am. stables. Nomatter how hot it is in the daytime here, as soonas the Sun sets. it gets perishing cold by 7pm.Yesterday morning, something awoke me about5am. & I could hear one of my drivers (who was onstable picquet) calling out " What are you doingthere, you black dog" a number of times, there wasno answer, & then I heard the sound of scamperingfeet & the driver calling out the Guard to "Stop him"They caught him & it turned out to be a niggerwho had stolen some books & clothes of some ofour chaps who sleep outside their tents. Of coursethe nigger was jabbering in his own lingo, butCroughan (the driver) would have none of him & tooksome of the sacks which the nigger was carrying &put, or rather made him get into the sack himself, &when he had tied the top up, he went & got abucket of water & poured it all over the nigger& this set him wailing & howling (terrible curs, theniggers) & this brought out the Native Policemanwho is attached to us & he brought out his stockwhip, upended the nigger & placed him in such an attitude that his sitting down placewas uppermost (nigger wailing & howling allthe time) Then the Police told him in his ownlingo that that particular portion of his anatomywas about to undergo a process of being warmedto compensate for the water which had been thrownover him. Nearly everybody was out by this timein all sorts of clothes, some without, to watch thismost interesting operation. All the time the"John" was telling him how hard he was goingto catch it, & the nigger was howling in a mostmiserable manner, then the operation began.It looked just like a half sack of somethingfrom a distance, but on closer inspection, therecould be no doubt of the outline that the prisonerwas in the proper position, at least the policemanhad no doubts at all events, for he fell to &thrashed that nigger in a most alarming mannerabout at the rate of 120 strokes a minute, &only knocked off because he got tired. Of coursethe yells that emerged from the sack hadnever been heard the like before. After thisthe John locked him up for Robbery, Resistingthe Police, & causing a disturbance. It isneedless to say that we haven't seen him since Last Thursday, I went on whole day Leave& spent the day in Cairo, in company with myCorporal (Petterson) & 2 others, I visited a hatshop first & had a new band put insideas the old one was getting pretty crook. Next wevisited the Photographers where the boys gettheir work developed, & got the photo's which Ienclose. They are my Subsection & Team.All tip top fellows & will fight to a finish.Next we went to Dinner. 2/- each, (dear enoughbut can't eat it at a cheaper price) had soup,Fowl, vegetables, cake & fruit. Afterwards we wentto the Museum & saw all kinds of wonderfulMummies & things. We saw the actual remainsof Rameses. & his wife, who are in a remarkablestate of preservation, altho very ugly. Themummies are very wonderful, but as Chas Dickens^says are "staring intensely at nowhere". We also sawthe Jewel room & therein was all the jewellry thatis put in the coffins of dead Kings, Queens, EtcSome of the mummies are about 20 feethigh & altho they may have the ordinarybodies, they have different kinds ofheads, such as Snakes, Lions, Birds &all different kinds of creatures. We go every Wednesday & Saturday nighteither to the Pathe Pictures or else to the BoxingStadium of the 7th Battalion (Victoria) & herewe see some good boxing matches betweenAustralians & New Zealanders. Nearly allthe Officers (including Generals) go to these &one has to go early to get a good seat.We have interesting lectures still, of the warby General Owen, who has just come straightfrom the Front to take command of us. Hehas had some wonderful adventures & escapes.All our chaps are well & wish to be rememberedto all. Our Quarter Master Sergeant is in troubleagain & to-day stood his Trial by Court Martialfor neglect of Duty & Drunkness, He was foundGuilty, but has not been sentenced yet.I hope you are all well at home & elsewhereGive my kind regards to all kind enquirersHope you got my Registered Parcel by lastMail & that Mab got her Post cards. I hopeRupert is well, also you, & that things are muchbetter regarding the price of livingWell good bye, Mum for the presentfrom your loving Son,Norman