Author: Norman Griffiths EllsworthLocation: Mena CampCairo EgyptDate: 25 February 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & all at HomeI am glad to say that Ihave again received another of your most welcomeletters, also one from dear Mab, also one from Mr Sheldonat the Mint. I am glad to know that Rupert is wellagain & I hope he has started school again. Tell Mabthat I have received her Photo & case alright, also FlosRobbie's, for which I thank them very much for & Icarry them inside my shirt pocket always. I am notsurprised to read of Bert Handley coming away as hewas always a good soldier, but I must admit thatpromotion comes very freely in the latter contingents,whilst we have to go for all we are worth to keepour Rank. However we will be first into the"Scrap" & this is something I would not care to missfor untold money. My greatest wish will be fulfilledthe very moment we open fire against the Germans.My gun is in great "nick" & she sings lovely musicwhen in Action. We have done a lot of shootinglately & last Monday night, we fired for thefirst time at night at 9.45pm. We were restedall day & at 6.30pm, we harnessed up & movedout in full war strength & conditions.After marching out several miles into theDesert, we suddenly came across 4 horsemen, each20 yards from each other, as soon as each gunwas alongside one of these horsemen, we quietly gotthe order "Halt" Action Right" it was a great surprisebut the order was promtly obeyed & the greatestsilence was maintained from the time we leftCamp until we finished up next day. No body wasallowed to speak, except the Sergeants & then nomore than a whisper. We laid our sights on totwo rays of light from lamps about 80 yards infront of the gun & put the range on. We were rightbehind a big hill, so of course, did not knowwhat we were firing at. Our fire was supposedto be observed by Air craft, & this was done bysignals flashed by lamps from the Staff froma neighbouring hill about a mile from us.My gun fired first; it was a blinging flash,& a deafening roar & away went our firstshell. Moons gun then got to work & spat fire.Then came a flashlight signal, an alterationof 50 yards to our range, & we let loose again& this time we scored a direct hit with our gun as we afterwards learnt. We were the only batteryin our brigade to shoot at night, & Moons and mygun were the only 2 guns to shoot in the battery,so we are pleased to know that we were the onlybattery in the whole division to score a direct hit.After "Cease firing" we dug our guns in & stronglyentrenched our selves & wagon. We do this bydigging out about 2 feet of earth & putting thisinto sand bags, then run the gun & wagon intoit & bank up the earth 4 feet high all around& just leave room for the muzzle to protrude. Thenwe dig trenches each side of the gun pit 5 feetdeep for the detachment to get into when we arenot in action. We made such a good job of it,that when the General and his staff inspected usnext morning there, he said "Splendid, oh splendid,"lads". We worked on digging the pit until3 a.m. that morning (Tuesday) then we walkedover to where our wagon line & horses were bivouaced& just lie down with a water proof sheet &blanket & slept till 6 a.m. then finished ourpit & commenced shooting a Brigade shoot,that is, 3 batteries in Action at once. Ourshooting was sill being observed by Air craft so of course we could only tell our shooting wasgood by the fact that we kept firing at theone range & elevation for 14 rounds & they soonstop us from firing if we get off the target. We arelearning all the new methods of finding the range to atarget in conjunction with an Aeroplane flying at aprearranged height. It is a little difficult at first, but^when one becomes familiar with the work, it comes easy.Then again, a Battery Commander is only pointedout his target on a map, & he has to make his deductionsetc & get his battery to work as soon as possible.We have had to paint our Guns & Wagons anentirely different color, in fact they are all colors,they just look like as if some kids have foundsome tins of paint of different colors & slapped themon anyhow. No two spokes are painted the samecolor & all sorts of hideous gaudy colors areslapped on. This sort of thing has been foundmost satisfactory in France & it makes it verydifficult for the enemy to pick out the artillery.from the. We hope to leave here very soon now.We only get a mail every fortnight now, sowe have to wait longer. By this mail we areall surprised to see that Capt Bean, who is with the Force as correspondent, has writtenhome such a pack of deliberate falshoods about thedisgraceful conduct of portion of our troops.Now, Mother, as you know, I am only too keen todenounce a drunken brawl or even drunken men,but I must candidly admit that such conducthas never taken place in Cairo. In all my travelsin & around Cairo, I have never set my eyes onanything that other fellows have done in Cairothat I would not do myself. Of course, I do notsay that there is no soldier gets drunk in Cairo,but if there is, he is generally put out of sight by hisPals, otherwise he is locked up by the Military Police.Beans article has simply staggered us all &every where in Camp now, cries can be heard forthe hanging or drowning of Bean. Every where itis being discussed & meetings are being held inthe different messes. The men wearing Africancolors are going to take drastic action to makeBean apologise for sending such lies to the printedat Home. We can all imagine the way the peopleat home think of us all after reading Beans article,but we earnestly hope that people will readit with a big grain of salt and disbelieve it. Of course, in some Units there are a few wasterswho have had to be sent away, & in addition tothem, there are several who have gone back, verydecent fellows, but who have been returned for suchthings as "Refusing Vaccination" of "not likely to becomean efficient soldier" & things of that sort. Thesefellows, when they arrive in Australia, are in greatdanger of being classed by the Public as "Wasters",& are probably are some of the most decent chapsalive. This is where Beans article will do themischief. I can only say again, that there was notthe least reason in the world for Bean to writesuch a pack of the most unscrupulous lies everpenned. One of our chaps has written a piece ofPoetry about it & I will try & send you a copy inthis letter. I am very much afraid that, if Beandoes not clear out from Mena Camp, somethingunfortunate will befall him. Now for anothersubject. We have all been vaccinated againon account of Small Pox amongst the Arabs, butI am pleased to say that mine did not takefor the second time. Shower baths have at lotlast been constructed in Camp, so we can get a refreshing shower after a dusty march.We are still a happy party & thoroughly enjoyingourselves. Yardley has gone into Hospital withInfluenza, but hopes to be out in a few days.All the other fellows are well & send theirkindest regards. I haven't got a letter fromGeorge yet, but hope to soon.I am sorry to see that living is such atremendous price in Melbourne at present, & ifyou feel the pinch, take as much of my moneyas you want & let Mab help herself too.I greatly appreciate all the kind wishes &enquiries made of me at home & elsewhere. Giveeverybody my best wishes & tell them of my appreciationof their kind enquiries. I hope Miss Taylorhas let her houses & that she is quite well.Thank Mrs King for her kind wishes too.Tell Mab that I am sending by this maila set of the Post Cards which she asked for, buttell her not to think of taking my letters to any ofthe daily papers. Tell Jack Tilton that, nobodyplaces any reliance ofn Neil Gibson joining thetroops on Active Service & are not very keen toshake him by the hand. How are all the Relations? If you write to themat Winchelsea, tell them that I often think of them &tell them that I have been successful in gettingPercy Wells transferred from the Ammunition Columnto our Battery & he is getting on fine. He is areal tip top chap & all the Officers are pleasedwith him. Give my love to Aunt Hannah & tellher I am in my glory. I am glad that CharlieHettie & family enjoyed themselves at Dromana &am glad that George enjoyed his holiday at Creswick.I hope his business is a great success by now.I am sending along by registered Post, a Tablecentre which I bought in Cairo for you, Mum,so hope you get it alright. I am often thinkingof the feed we will have on my return. Onionstuffing must pay an important part in the feed.Don't forget to tell Mab, that Braith & I stillhave the cushions she made for us & are stillappreciated greatly. Now Mother dear, Imust close now (8 pages) with fondest loveto all at home & an extra whack for your dearself I remain your loving sonNorman. Tell Mab that I amsending the PCs by this Mail