Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Date: 14 February 1915 Location: Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Sunday 14th FebDearest Mother & all at HomeI nearly missed writingthis week as I have had a slight touch of Influenzawhich has been very prevalent here lately. I waspermitted to stay in bed for 3 days, by the Dr & I amglad to say that I am quite alright again. Braith-waite, too, has been down with pain the the stomachcaused by food poisoning & the Dr had to come down& put hot fomentations on his bingy, but he isalright again, too. There is not much new news Ican tell you as it is beginning to get monotonous here& we shall be glad to leave for the Front soonLast Sunday, we rode out to Sakkara Tombswhere the Sacred Bulls & other great treasuredmummies are preserved. The Tombs are about of a mile long & every now & then there is abig vault of granite carved out for the bodyof a sacred bull & other sacred creatures.I cannot find time to describe it to you but Iwill send you a Descriptive Book concerning theancient mysteries of it all. We have anextremely busy time of it now & don't get much time to ourselves & when you get this, weare only too glad to get to bed. There are severalbig pictureshows opened here & together with theBoxing Stadium, we are well catered for in sportI got no fewer that 8 letters by this last Mailas they have all been help up in the Canal, butas this scrap is all over now, we expect no moretrouble in this respect. Was pleased to get aletter from Chas also from "Binns" & I amsending him some Post Cards. I am pleased toknow that he is quite well again. Dear Mother,it is impossible for me to answer all the kindfriends letters that I get regularly, so I knowthat you will not mind spreading what littlenews I send to you. There is another Christ ChurchChoir Boy turned up here & he is Albert CharlesProsser, he is with the N.S. Wales Infantry & isserving under the name of Albert Charles as heran away from home. Les Ilsley is here &is with me to night, he is mad to get transferredto the Australians. We have just got aGeneral of Artillery straight from the Front totrain the Artillery & to take us with him to thefront. He lectures to us twice a week & he has told us some wonderful adventures& says that the British Artillery have madea great name for themselves at the Front.The fight at the Canal was a half heartedaffair & the British let the Turks get thepontoons on the Canal & as soon as theywere crowded with Turks, the first shot fromthe H.M.S. Swift sure blew the whole showto bits. The Turks kept surrendingering inbatches of 10 up to 100s . All the Australianshave been brought back to Mena. Thesecond contingent & first batch of re-inforcementsare here now & getting their baptism of theSahara Dessert. Now, Mum, how is everyone?Flos Robbie sent me one last week. Give hermy love. Tell George I am enjoying myself great. Tell Jack Tiltonthat I don't see him in Egypt yet. Remember me to Miss Taylor. If you havetime drop a line to Constable Watson for me &I'll write to him soon. Good bye for the presentwith fondest love to all & yourself I amyour loving son Norman.