Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Date: 21 August 1915 Rank: Sergeant Nationality: Australian Text: Monday Dearest Mother & all at HomeJust a line to let you know thatI am still alright & the boys the same, altho' Diarrhoeais a little prevalent amongst us & it takes nearly all thestrength out of one. I have just had to spend a coupleof days in Hospital with a touch of Enteritis & vomiting,but am back again on duty again.There have been several changes& promotions in the Battery since I last wrote & youwill be surprised to know that all the Senior N.C.Oshave been left out in the cold.Dowsett has been transferred toHead Quarters staff. Moon has been made Sergeant Major.The Quarter Master Sergeant has been transferred toThe Ordnance Depot & a corporal is doing his job atpresent & the junior corporal of the Battery hasbeen made Sergeant in Moons place.Myself & Corporal have been left outof the "running". So I had an interview with ourO.C. & he said that it was because I had oneor two little faults such as "familiarity with themen on my Subsection, Etc." altho' not exactly neglectof duty, so I asked him, if he would haveany objections to my transferring to anotherUnit & he said "No", so I have sent a letter to theO.C. No 3 Section Divisional Ammunition Column(he was my former Battery Commander in the 25th Battery)& I am only awaiting his answer before forwardingmy transfer papers. I may have to revert to a Corporalfor the time being in the Column, but the pay is only 6 a day lessthan that of Sergeant, & I would soon be able toreach my former Rank. If I do have to revert, Mother,the pay won't affect you, as I can easily do withoutthe 6 per day.There has been very little change otherwise sinceI last wrote to you & it looks as if we will have todo the winter here, but we have got good boots& plenty of socks & other clothing, but there willbe plenty of clay in the trenches.What did you have for dinner yesterday,Roast Pork, Onion Stuffing, Baked Spuds, & Fresh vegetables, &Tapioca custard to finish up with. We had Bully-beef.in a few boiled onions & a handful of boiled rice too, soI'm going to shake things up when I return.How is everybody, Give my kind regardsto all kind enquirers, Love to all relatives & a specialwhack to all the Ellsworth family & an extra ration foryourself from your loving SonNorman. How are your eyes? I hopethey are well again, also Ruperts.Tell Mab to send me VerneRitchies' proper Military address& Rank.Norman