Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Gaba Tepe Gallipoli Peninsular Turkey Date: 12 July 1915 Nationality: Australian Text Dearest Mother & all at Home,Just a line to let you know that I amstill in the best of health & am sticking to it, despite the factit so getting a little monotonous through being in the one placefor so long, but there is sure to be something doing shortly,so we will see plenty of fun I suppose.Another Mail came in yesterday but so far I havenot got any from you or Mab by this one, but I have nodoubt that the rest of it will be delivered by tomorrow or thenext day, so will live in hopes.How are you all at Home? How I long tosee you all again, & when I do there will be a greatwagging of tongues, for I will have enough to tell you,to make me quite unpopular. Some of the things we haveseen are quite romantic, what with Battleships bombarding,Torpoedo Destroyers tearing about all over the place, Aeroplanes& Bi planes & Sea planes by the dozens, some droppingBombs, others observing for the Gunboats, why It doesn'tseem like war at all. Would you believe me when Itell you, that I have been here every day since the 25thof April & I haven't seen a Turk, dead or alive, yet, thatis to say, not closely, of course I have seen them in thedistance moving about on the sky-line, but I have not been close enough to see what colour they are, but I suppose thatbefore long, we will see hundreds of them as prisoners. Thereis a big battle on down below at Cape Helles & AchiBaba has been getting spots knocked off it by the AlliesWar Boats & their Field Artillery as well, & they are stillat it "hammer & tongs" & after the bombarding has ceased,I suppose the usual Infantry "blaguard" rush will takeplace & then there will be a lot of dead Turks to bury.We keep the Turks up here pretty lively, & give themlittle Artillery bombardments every now & then, & plenty ofmachine gun & rifle fire to warm them up & to make themwaste their ammunition. Reliable prisoners captured fromthe Turks say that they are not over blessed with anabundance of Shells & Cartridges, so this looks all thehealthier for us. I was wondering. Mother, if you could sendone a little parcel containing, some "Asperin Tabloids", &also some "Mix Vomica" & also some thing for "Diarrhoea".Just a little of each will do as it all helps to keepa man fit. Diarrhoea is just a little prevalent amongstour chaps, due, no doubt, to drinking so much water,but I am pleased to say that I have only been off colourone day since I landed here, so you see I'm quite alrightaltho' it may come in handy someday.Is it true that recruiting has stopped both inEngland & in Australia, if it has, then it is a very good sign. Next day. Well mother dear, I am pleased to tell you thatthe mail so in & I got 2 from Mab, 1 from you & 1 from MrDavidson, who tells me that Ruby has been down with Measles,but is quite alright again. I cannot tell you what joy it givesme to get letters from you and Mab, & I don't care a hang ifnobody else doesn't write. I read your letters over & over againso as not to miss anything. I also got two "Table Talks", &several other papers from anynon annonymous senders. I amvery sorry to read that Charlie is still out of work, but hopeere this, he has a permanent job. As I write now, a Turkishgun, firing high explosive shell is firing on us, & 2 batteriesof field guns & 1 of howitzer is "taking him on" & giving himsome "hurry up" too. I am sorry to tell you that Yardleyhas gone back & will probably go to Australia immediately.He has not been the success we had hoped for, bad luck.We go for a swim every night & thoroughly enjoy ourselves.Thousands are always in swimming & the physique of our menis simply great; Truly they are a body of athletes.I haven't got the parcel of clothing by this mail, but it willsure to come; We got innoculated against Cholera to-day, sohope this will keep us fit. The boys didn't mind it a bit.Well, Mother, don't forget to send along the little parcelof medicine please, also something for prickly heat rash onthe body, which causes me to scratch myself. Will close nowhoping you are all in the best of health, the same as I amI am your loving sonNorman. Don't be afraid to confine the subjectsin your letters, they are not censored.Ask Mab to drop Nell Wheelera line for me, as I've not much timefor letter writing or have I the materiel.67 Argyle StSt Kilda. P. S. Young Prosser of whom I told you in mylast, letter has been wounded again & sent to Malta& to be operated on.