Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena Camp Cairo EgyptDate: 12 March 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother, Mab, & all at Home.As we only get ourMail delivered once a fortnight now, I get 2 lettersor 3 from home each delivery, so you can see howwe look forward to every second Wednesday.I also got a letter from George by this Mail(his first) & was pleased to get it & to read of his holidayin Creswick. Peter Moorfield of the Mint alsodropped me a short note too, in answer to somePost Cards which I had sent him. The chaps at theMint are very stingy with their letters, altho' I havewritten several times to them & I have only got oneletter of one page from them until now. DaveWatson, the policeman up there, is the only one worthwriting to & as my time for writing letters is verylimited, I am afraid that I will have to put themon the "Debarred List" as we call it. Considering Iam the only one from the Mint away with theExpeditionary Force, I am a little surprised thatsome of the boys haven't had time to drop mea line or two, but I mustn't growl anymore, aslong as I get letters from you & Mab, I don't care a hang. I am very pleased to read by your welcome letters thatyou are all well, especially yourself, & it is alsogood to know that Rupert is quite well, for I knowwhat extra work it is to you whilst he is ill. Mab tellsme that she spent an enjoyable time at Middle Park.She generally enjoys herself wherever she goes & GoodLuck to her too. Holidays are made for enjoying oneselfI often think of Floss Robbie, Chrissie Watson &a host of other friends, & I am sorry that I am quiteunable to find time to write to them all, but I hopeyou will assure them that I haven't forgotten themI will write home to you when it is possible, everyweek, & I hope Mab will be contented with thisletter too, as a sergeant has tons of work to do & itis difficult to get time to write.I will drink to your good health, fortune, & longlife, Mother, on the 16th of this month, & hope that theTable Centre which I sent to you per Registered Post,will reach you in time for your Birthday. Be sure& have a good feed of Onion Suffing on that day.I want you to go into town & have a good"blow out" & booked seats at the Theatre at myexpense & Mab too, so don't forget & mind youdo, because I'll find out if you don't. Notforgetting oysters & Flounder afterwards of course. I hope by this time that all of Beans dirty, filthy,reports of Bad conduct has been quite cleared bynow & our fair name upheld. I cannot tell youwhat indignation and wrath was caused amongstall ranks here, it eclipsed everything & nearlycaused a mutiny in Camp, & his recall to Australiawas howled for in every lines. Scores of letterswere written to Members of Parliament & otherinfluential gentlemen by different Messes & it isour earnest hope that the general Public are quiteclear on the subject now. Captain Bean hasdone more to besmirch Australias good name,than the whole 40,000 Troops in Egypt. Since thepapers from Australia reached us, he has causeda memo in Divisional Orders to be read to thetroops, a quibbling, shuffling, paltry excuse to usthat "his message has been misunderstood" atMelbourne. Now what do you think of him now,?Is it any wonder we ask for his recall.As I said before, & I say again now, that theconduct of the Troops, generally, is exemplary& when we are in Cairo on leave, we can walkabout just the same as any other soldier &command respect. Any sign, however small, ofdrunkeness or rowdiness is instantly dispelled. I am sorry to tell you that we have had an unfortunateevent in our Battery. Our Quarter Master Sergeant,who is an ex Imperial man, imbibed rather too freelyof the "cup that cheers" & incurred the displeasure ofthe Commanding Officer who ordered him to be placedunder Arrest. One Sergeant has to be detachedto take charge of him all the time, so we took it inturns, & what a disagreeable job it is too, because wehave to escort him every where he goes, Canteenexcepted of course; He was remanded to the BrigadeCommander who remanded him to a District CourtMartial. The Court Martial found him Guilty ofthe Charge of Drunkeness & Reduced him to theRanks as Gunner & transferred him to the Column.It was a dramatic scene one morning when theFinding & Sentence was read. The whole Batterywas paraded & formed up in 3 sides of a square& he was marched up, under Escort with hatoff, facing the Parade & the sentence read.He faced it magnificently & never flinched.I'll never forget the scene if I live to be a 1,000.Well, Mum, I am in the best of health & soare all the boys & are only too sorry we haven'thad a scrap yet, but there are strong indicationsthat we leave Egypt on the 20th of this month. but of course, we don't know our destination.We Reveille at 5am now & parade in fullmarching order at 6am. & do our manoeuvresbefore the sun gets up properly & return to Campat 10am. & this finishes our days work, exceptfor midday & 4pm stables.The 3rd Reinforcements arrived in Camplast Sunday, but I haven't seen any one Iknow yet.Yardley gets the "Table Talk" by each mail& the page which contains the week end Campersat the seaside usually comes in for a veryscathing criticism. Cannot somebody givethem a bump about stopping at Home enjoyingthemselves, whilst others are away trying to renderthe Empire some assistance. I only wish they couldsee some of the advertisements in Cairo about Enlisting,it would do them good, or rather, make themthink.The weather here is getting hotter & dustier eachado day & the flies are the curse of Egypt, theyare the most persistent of any winged tribe here.It is no wonder that disease is rampanthere, as they are the carriers of all kinds ofmicrobes. Mosquitoes are troublesome at night, too. There is one thing here that annoys us more than anything else & that is, All the shopkeepers, etc, are out tobeat us for all they know: Nothing is too dear for theAustralian! He has plenty of money to spend: Thisis the popular sentiment amongst the Egyptian Tradespeople: Of course the Australian pays up & doesn'tgrumble. We went into Cairo last Wednesday & spentthe whole day on Leave. First, we went & had ourPhoto's taken, singly, then the 4 of us together. FredConradi, Jack Hall, Harry Braithwaite & myself.Jack is going in for them tomorrow, so if he getsthem, I'll send them in this letter. They are PostCard size & the chap is giving us a Paris Paneleach for nothing.After this we went & inspected the RailwayWorkshops & there, were greatly interested in allwe saw. These people made the new portions ofthe gun shields for us, to protect us from attacksfrom aircraft. It is a great benefit to us as itgives us 3 times more protection than before.The guns & wagons look more like atravelling circus than Artillery as the paintis all the gaudy bright colours we could slapon. It just looks like as if some kids got towork & spilt a lot of tins of paint over them. At a distance, one cannot tell what they are &it is hard to believe that our equipment is soinconspicuous through this idea. I am sendingalong several other Photos for you to see. One ismy Corporal (Will Pettersson) from Windsor. No onecould have rendered me such assistance & loyaltytowards the working of my subsection as he has done.He is tireless in his efforts & is very popular witheveryone. The other is Tiny Salkeld (6 feet 7 inches)one of my Gunners : A good soldier & an honestchap in all his dealings, in addition, he is a verywitty & the best of good natured fellow. Thenthere is Jack Halls photo. I can't say more, thanthat he is one of the most desirable companionsI have got. He is always of a witty disposition.Now Mother dear, I must close, hoping everyoneis in the best of good health. Give my kind regardsto all kind enquirers & my best love to all atHome & elsewhere. I am always thinking of youall & also Aunts & Uncles, so tell them that Iwill always think of them. Tell Rupert that westill have rides on the donkeys.Once more with the best of love.I remain your loving Son,Norman. Please don't think that I havegrown a moustache, for I simplyhate the idea & would noteven if I couldNorman. Charlie Sheldrake wishes to beremembered to MabIf you have any old weekliesor magazines, I should feelobliged for them, to you.Norm