Author: Norman Griffiths EllsworthDate: 18 February 1915Location: Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Dearest Mother & all at HomeJust a line to let you knowthat I am in the best of health & having an enjoyabletime, despite the fact we are getting tired of Egypt.We still have plenty of sights to see yet, but it isdifficult for us all the get off in suitable time, but onWednesdays, 25% get Leave from 10 am. so this gives usa better chance. Yesterday Braithwaite, Conradi, Goodall,& myself went on Leave & visited Heliopolis, where I wasin the Hospital for 5 days, & there we had a good lookaround in the daylight & some fine buildings we sawtoo. We had a good hot bath in Cairo, then a feedthen took the tram for Heliopolis. It is a streetrailway rather than a tram, & at one time it isrunning through the streets, then it runs into a railwayyard & runs through stations, & then later on intothe street again. To day the battery has gone out intothe Desert for manoevres etc, but I have been leftin Camp, (being Orderly Sergeant) to take charge of allmen & horses left in the Lines. Last night we wentto the "Kinsall" a sort of Opera house show, butit was pretty deadly. I am sending you theprogramme to let you see. The second contingent which arrived in Egyptlast week are stationed at Heliopolis & seemedto be much better dressed that we are, & I supposethat the 3rd and 4th lots will be better looked after still.The men who volunteer first, generally get treatedthe worst in this kind of business & yet they are supposedto be the pick of the bunch. I haven't got any letters fromthe Mint fellows yet altho' I have written several to them,so I will discontinue writing to them after this. ConstableWatson is the only decent chap up there & he often writesme long letters & sends me papers, Etc. Of course I willwrite to him as often as I can. I would like, if it ispossible, Mum, to get a few papers or "Leaders" Etc, as weare pretty hard up for reading at times.All our fellows are well & send their kindregards to all. I got the packet of stationery which Mabsent & it is appreciated very much by all in the Mess.Braithwaite dies as usual every night in the bed,& it is the work of the world to '"raise him from the dead"each morning. Then he starts to swear blind thatReveille hasn't gone yet, & he sits up in bed & talksof the staff not knowing their business in havingReveille so early, & of course all the while he istalking like this, time is getting later & if he gets on Parade late, Moon reports him & then he getsinto trouble. I have no difficulty in getting up as the"Crier" or Caller up" in the Arab village opposite ourlines kicks up quite enough noise to wake me. Thisold ruffian is too old to work, so he is appointed to thisjob. There is no clocks among the Arabs, but this old"coot" gets up somewhere about 4 a.m. & roams aboutthe ally ways setting up a most dismal howl &of course it is impossible for any one to get any sleep whilethis old demon is at large. Why on earth the otherniggers dont throw bricks at him I don't know.Moon is still the same old woman with his book, &is always in trouble with his men & horses.Yardley, Jack Hall, Adams, Conradi, are all thefine lot of chaps they were in Broadmeadows. Ralphis our Mess orderly now, & washes up our dishes &waits on the tables. How is all at home. Givethem all my love, also Miss Taylor, how isAunt Hannah & all at Winchelsea, give them mylove & remembrances. Hope George and Charlie & familyare well. Got a letter from Charl last week, Givemy love to Rupert, Floss Robbie, & all kind enquirers& accept an extra ration for your dear selffrom your loving son Norman. A small coin inside a piastre (5 milliemes) worth 2 . Thank Mab for the writing TabletTell Jack Tilton to come out here.