Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England Regiment: 1st Divisional ArtilleryDate: 12 February 1917 Nationality: Australian Text: My Dearest Mother, & all at Home,I have at lastreceived the long-looked for parcels. Howcan I thank you enough for them? Theyare "bonny", & the contents worth to me.Everything was in tip-top order, andthe leather vest so just wonderful, & it justknocks this kind of weather rotten.As youalready know, it is the coldest weather foryears, & the water is frozen everywhere,- even in the fire buckets in the huts,& we have to light fires under the troughsto give the horses a drink, & so you cansee that the vest was sorely tried, butcame out "trumps". - I would not bewithout it for worlds. - and theshirts, singlets, & other goods, - whyit is wonderful to be wearing Australianmade clothing once more, & I feel as happy& as proud as a King.I have an abundanceof clothes now, so please don't worry on myaccount, & please thank everyone connectedwith the parcel, very much for me.I havewritten to-night to Aunt Hannah, & postedC/o of "Tango", as I do not know her address,so kindly forward it on for me.I am expecting some Australian Mail in the morning, but as "Fritz" has gone"dotty" with his Submarines again, goodnessonly knows when the mail will really getin, - if ever it does get in.They are justcrowding guns and shells into France lately,and on the Western front there is no room forany more, & Lloyd George (Heaven bless him)has got all sorts of contrivances for killing"Fritz", & early next month the fun will begin& I must be in it or I'll go 'dotty'.Theres nodoubt about Ll George, - he is the championof the Empire, - he doesn't say to theGenerals. "you'll have this, or you shan't havethat", - he just asks them what they need,& he gives it them with interest. - He isa wonder. May he live for ever.I, & manyother Australians here are quite satisfiedwith the Labour party, - & those damnI. W. Ws, & it won't be well for them whenthe boys do come home. I hope they don'tcall themselves Australians. People herein England are saying some nasty thingsabout them, & their attitude is changing veryfast towards Australians thro' them. I forone, should like to know the man who willvote for Austey again, or any of his gang.Well, dear Mother, I do hope you areall well. Give my love to all, & tell themthat I am well, so hoping to see youall before the end of this year.I am with fondest loveYour loving Son,Norman. 116th HOWITZER BATTERY12 February 1917.Ist DIVL. ARTILLERY, AUS.No. 1 Boyton Camp.Codford; Wills.England.