Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena Camp Cairo EqyptDate: 29 January 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Dearest Mother & all at Home.Just a line to let you knowthat I received several more letters of earlier dates & Ithink that I have received the lot now. Your latestletters told me of news of poor old "Binnso" having Diptheria.I can't imagine how he developed this horrible complaintunless he contracted it from some kiddie at school.I think your decision of sending him to Fairfield awise one, as there can be no doubt that the place is amuch improved one since the Institution came in forsuch a scathing criticism both in Parliament & inthe Papers. Not only this, but the task that you wouldhave had of nursing him would have thoroughly knockedyou up & made things worse, however, I have not theslightest doubt that he will get quite well again ina very short time. Tell him for me that he is a goodboy for not crying & I will send him some morePost Cards. I'm sure he will be well treated there& not only this, it will be a change for him & a restto you altho' I know that you will be worrying abouthim, but everything will be all right. I always read bothyour & Mabs bonnie letters scores of times & I get themregularly now. Tell Mab, not to go to the trouble she has, of getting Cigarettes for the Boys, as I wantto tell you that Egypt is the home of the Cigarette. It isnothing but Cigarette shops & on every street cornerthere is scores of men & women selling them & Arabsfollow us for miles into the Desert, when we go outto manoevres, selling "Fags", & the first thing onehears when he wakes up in the morning is "FlagCigarette" a Piastre" (1 ') I am glad to say that fewof us smoke them & as for myself, I have given themup entirely. We are enjoying ourselves very fine &altho the work is hard, nevertheless we are happy.We are going at top speed every day & the horsesare called on to do some arduous work hauling theguns & wagons through the sand of the Desert, (forthis is where we drill), but they are going fine.Yesterday we started out in Full War strength &a fine sight we made too. Big waggons were withus for the carting of baggage Etc & we moved justas we would go in the actual job. We bivouacedabout 10 miles in the Desert & occupied a positionin Action in the night & dug ourselves in, & wefinished up at 11.30pm & laid down & slept till4 a.m. & then commenced our firing at daybreak.It was lovely sleeping out & quite enjoyed ourselves We have General Bridges & General Birdwood followingour work very closely & they criticise our work as"Very Good" & our O.C. was complimented on thefine Battery he had command of. (Hows that.)All the Sergeants are well & send their kindestremembrances to all & thank everyone for their goodwishes.We have rumours always that we leave for theFront in "2 days time" but it never comes off.The Turks are crossing the Desert to attackEgypt, but Experts say that they will never get here.I haven't been into Cairo much lately as wecan get a bath in Camp now & Cairo is a dirtystinking hole & the businesses have marked up"Special Prices for Australians" its specialalright as we always have to pay twice as muchas anyone else. Boots are an extraordinaryprice here as very few wear them, and a pairwhich cost 7/6 at Johnnie Wallaces in King Stcost 1.7.6. here. Clothing is not so bad butquite dear enough. There is no milkmen withcart in Cairo, as a nigger drives up some cowsto a persons front door, hops in, & gets a jug &milks a cow right there. Dead funny isn't it. I have received several papers & weeklys & I thankyou for them. Vin Yardley gets the "Table Talk" everyweek & other papers, so you see we can still seedear old Melbourne occasionly. How is Georgegetting on, I haven't got a letter from him or Charlyet, but hope to soon. I hope they are bothgetting on well. Tell Mab, that there is no girlslike the Melbourne girls. How is Floss Robbie, ?give here my love & also the boys send theirs too.Tell Jack Tilton that this is a grand life, & I'llexpect him out here with the Reinforcements, hewill not regret it. Jack Heywood sends his regardsto him. There is plenty of Phone work in the Artillery now.How is Miss Taylor getting on, tell her I am alwaysthinking of her, & her little blue bags are doing goodservice. How are you off for money, if short, I'llsend you some. I have plenty of clean clothesbut some of my socks want darning. I am goingto tackle them when I finish this letter. Nowdear Mother, I must close as I have told you thenews so with fondest love to all enquirers bothat home & elsewhere & an extra ration for yourselfI remain your loving son & BrotherNorman. I am glad to see thatyou had Lennexout for Xmas.It saved you a lotof work. We have plenty of moving pictures in Camp nowalso a big Boxing Stadium & this providessome great sport.