Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: No 1 Boyton Camp Codford Wilts England Regiment: 1st Divisional ArtilleryDate: 21 February 1917 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother, & all at Home,Just a little noteto you, as I have been in bed fora couple of days with a cold, but now thatthe sun is out, & the weather much warmer inconsequence, I am quite myself again, & haveresumed duty, so don't start and worry about it,please.I consider that I have been extremelyhealthy to have missed colds this winter, seeingthat this is the coldest winter for years, andI caught this one thro' sleeping near a brokenwindow, which has since been replaced.TheDr was tip-top to me, & waited on me "hand &foot", & came over to me 3 times each day, &brought me "Bulletins" and other Australian papers,& asked me if I would like a week in hospital& all that kind of palaver, but there is areason for it of course, as he generally comesto me for a horse to ride on Saturdays &Sundays, so there you are.I have not gotany mail for more than a fortnight, butthis I attribute to the fresh out burst of U boatbusiness, but I don't think it will last for long,still I hope for some very soon.I have writtenevery week to you, whether there was a mailgoing out or not, so its not my fault if you didnot get them. I often wonder how poor Marion Ellsworth isgetting on, - poor girl, she is going thro'a terrible time.There certainly has been changessince I left Melbourne, & what with poor Amypassing away; & Beattie Miller, & several othersI know, - well Father Time is moving overthat way, too.We are not getting our equipmentso quickly as at first, & we cannot do ashoot until next month, so that meansour departure for France will be furtherdelayed.We are being considerably annoyedby our old Tommy Lieut Colonel who knowsas much about up-to-date artillery work, asa cat knows about the first book of Euclid, &our Officers call him everything, - & to hisface, & he thinks the Australian Officers veryawful, & their language, dreadful.George Allan (late Johnson) has writtenme a note, - he is about 10 miles fromhere. He tells me that the MedicalBoard have declared him "Unfit".Harry Johnson is about 25 miles fromhere.There is no more news this week, sowill close, hoping you are all well &with my fondest love to all. I amYour loving sonNorman.Enclosed is the photo ofthe young lady whotold me "that she loves me" 116th HOWITZER BATTERY21 February 1917.Ist DIVL. ARTILLERY, AUS.[*I send a Gas Helmet whichI brought from France with me,to you by this mail, per parcelpost. N. G. E.*]No. 1 Boyton Camp.Codford. Wills.England.