Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena CampCairo EgyptDate: 31 March 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Dearest Mother & all at Home,Another line or two as there is aMail closing tomorrow morning for Australia, so I though Iwouldn't miss the opportunity, altho' I have already writtento you this week. I have been wondering if you get my lettersregularly each week, because I haven't missed writing to youany week since we arrived in Egypt. We had our Xmasdinner on the Sahara & there is nothing surer than we willhave Easter Dinner on it too. We have to put up with some ofthe most disagreeable pests imaginable, now that the summeris so rapidly coming on. First there is the Flies : They wouldnot only make a Parson swear, but would probably inducehim to become a Bullock driver immediately, in order thathe could express his sentiments about them in morecomforting language to himself. Words simply fail one todescribe the way they they annoy one. Persistency must be their motto.They are only removed by violence to return again atonce.Mosquitoes are another curse which we have to put upwith & at night time, it is a misery to go to bed. Wehave been compelled to put chaff bags over our headswhen we go to bed to try & dodge the "cows", & of course it is nearly impossible to go to sleep under these conditions,& one simply has to lie awake & listen to them lobbing onthe outside of the chaff bag. No matter how expert onetries to cover his head , they can get in & then one hasto uncover to drive the "cows" out to the accompanymentof very strong language. Even at the early hours at 2amone can hear the other chaps going "crook" & Yardleygenerally gets up & walks about smoking a cigarette,too disgusted to speak to anyone.Locusts have invaded Egypt in trillions & altho' theydon't get out as far as the Desert, they swarm throughthe cultivation and ruin the crops.The Dust Storms , well, I simply can't describe themto you. St Kilda Rd on a "Northerly Buster" Day isa pleasant refreshing breeze , compared with what wehave to put up with . It is quite impossible to see anyfurther than 2 feet, & when one makes for his tent to try& get shelter, he not only finds it gone , but all hisclothes & equipment quite buried in the sand .Meals, on these days , are a pleasure, & when thestew is brought from the cook shop (providing, of course,the cook has been able to cook one) it is adorned bylayers of dust, straw and all kinds of filth which comeswith the storm, it is quite a disappointment if there is not at least 1 inch of dust in the bottom of ones cup.Well, Mother enough of this grumbling , now for the othernews. We had a fine inspection by General Sir IanHamilton this week. There were present the 4th LightHorse Regiment 1,000 strong, The Divisional Artillery whichconsists of 3 Brigrades of 3 Batteries & an AmmunitionColumn in each & a Divisional Ammunition Column aswell (5,000 all told) & the Divisional Engineers withtheir Tool carts & Pontoon bridging wagons & all theirWar equipment . We were all formed up in line &inspected & then marched past. First, came theLight Horse in line of squadrons of 100 in each lineThey looked splendid & their dressing was fine .Then came the 1st Field Artillery Brigade (N.S.Wales)in line of batteries 12 guns in each line & thewaggons following in rear. We, the 2nd F.A Brigadefollowed in the same formation, & after us came the3rd Brigade. The Engineers followed in rear & broughtto a finish a sight I would have liked you to haveseen. All the men & horses were at their best.Monday, I had charge of a gun carriage in a funeralof Private Pickles of the 1st (N S Wales) Field AmbulanceTo-day, we buried one of our Drivers (Charlie Newman)of Coburg & the whole battery turned out & gave him a Military Funeral. I had the task of breakingin the Firing Party for Sergt Moon, to whose subsectionhe belonged. Moon was quite unequal to theoccasion & as Dowsett knew just enough to leaveit alone, I fell in for it, & altho' I say it myself, theboys shaped fairly well. We brought the coffinfrom Mena House & placed it in a Tram & proceededto Giza tram terminus, where the gun carriage with theteam which Newman drove in, hooked in, & the 5th Infantrysupplied a band, so we made quite a decent littleshow. The motley Arab crowd which had congregatedwere soon dispensed, with much confusion, by thenative police. Tomorrow, we take part in a TacticalScheme, so I will turn in now, as it is Reveille at4.30am, I'll not get too much sleep.Well, Mother, I hope you are all well & allrelations. Give my kind regards to all enquirers& tell them that I am grateful for their remembrancesI am in the pink of condition, so am perfectlyhappy. I've had no mail this week, but expect ittomorrow. Well, I'll conclude with the best oflove to all at home & an extra ration for yourselffrom your loving son,Norman