Author: Norman Griffiths Ellsworth Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Date: 16 March 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: (Your birthday 16/03/1915.)My Dearest Mother & all at HomeI am pleased to tellyou that I've got another letter, each, from you andMab, and I can assure you that it is better thangetting a change of food for dinner. I might tell youthat when a mail comes in, rumours fly all aroundthe Camp as to the numbers of Bags contained inthe mail & it some times reaches the tall figures of"Hundreds of Bags", but anyhow meals are verylittle cared for on Mail day as every one in the Messgoes into his corner, lies down, & reads his lettersover & over again & the Mess Orderly gets thatwild at us not coming to dinner, that he calls usall the names he can lay his tongue to, & it generallyends up by him clearing all the "stuff" away.We don't mind this in the least, because we beginto discuss the contents of each others letters & papers.Yardley generally gets the "Table Talk" & we flyto look at the page of photo's of week end Campersat the Seaside, tell them off, then court martial them.Of course, they generally come in for a prettysolid round of abuse so richly deserved. The Chap beat meafter all as the Cabinetturned out to be a P.C.in a sort of frame. I am sending it to you by this mail. Tommy Goodall gets the "Leader", "Weekly Times", Etc,& the other boys get other papers that interest us fora day or two.I hope you got my Photo's alright. What do youthink of them? Is it any wonder I hate gettingthem done, however, thats over thank goodness &I hope I will not have to go through that performanceagain. I just got a dozen & 1 Cabinet (chucked in)(whichI haven't got yet) & you are the only people I havesent any to, the others, I had to give one each to allthe Mess, so that finished them. I will send theCabinet to you when I get it & Yardley has gone in toget it to-day, so you can do what you like with it.I am sending it to you per Registered Post, aSouvenir of Egypt, showing the different kinds ofwork carved on the statues of former Kings & Queens.All the different designs represent incidents ofthe deceaseds life, so one wants to examine themvery minutely.I am also sending Rupert some Post Cards bythis mail & hope that he likes them. You told methat he got my other cards & took them to school.We are all in the best of health except Jack Hall,who has just been taken to Hospital, ill withTollic Tonsillitis & he looks pretty miserable. Some more Australian Toops have arrived here& we are all pleased with the appearance & styleof them all; They are quite welcome here.I am not surprised a bit to know that Georgehas caught the enlisting craze : I knew that hewould want to come sooner or later. I hope hegets his Commission, altho' he will have to knowsomething of Map reading & Field sketching. I onlywish he was here now, because he would understandthe mysteries and history of this place more than me,(being better read in these things). I have not theleast desire for a Commission & am perfectly contentwith my lovely little gun & subsection, which I canassure you, will do all that is asked of them.We have been doing different kinds of Paradeslately & if it will not bore you too much, I will give youa brief description of this weeks work. It is farmore interesting to us as it is such a change to thehorrible dust storms in the Desert which we have totolerate. One day, we Reveille at 4.45am, get a cup oftea & 2 biscuits, then "hook in" the teams & go out & dosome manoeuvres & occupations of positions in which theSubalterns were exercised in the work of Battery Commander& Yardley & myself were busying ourselves in bringingthe Battery into Action, & I am pleased to say that as far as we were concerned, our work was successfullycarried out. We returned to Camp at 10am, watered &fed the horses, then had breakfast. By this time, ourbelts were pretty well tightened right up, but Steak,Chops & eggs soon rectified this. We only had to paradethen for midday stables & 4pm stables. This is notbad as we do our work before the sun gets too Hot.Next day, however, we Reveille at 6am, & at9am, went out with Guns & wagons, up to thePyramids, where all half broken down walls & anunderground city, (or the remains I should say) &the Major made us take the guns & vehicles over theroughest part & in places, we had to unhook theTeams and bodily lift the limber and gun over a 5 feetstone wall, hook in again & and go at a sand& loose stone wall at the Full Gallop. All myhorses & men faced this hard work with the greatestof pluck & energy. Whilst lifting our limber on toa stony shelf 4 feet high, we had the unique experienceof getting wet through in 2 minutes & thoroughlydry again in 5 minutes. It rained for the 2nd timesince we landed in Egypt. To morrow, we haveto go down to the Canal & swim ourselves, & horses acrossthen float our Guns & wagons across by using barrels.This is interesting work & all the boys like it as it is such a contrast to dragging through theDesert day after day. Next day we have to takeall our War Equipment over a Pontoon Bridgebuilt by our Engineers. Our other performancesthis week consists of going up & down slopes of45 degrees fully horsed & manned, so its a casefor the Gunners hanging on for dear life.We have had our new peak caps issued to usas they just arrived from England & have different clothto thatose of the Australian caps. Of course, we look a lotof "gooeys" in them at present, because everybody wearsthem a different way to anybody else. Its very funny nowas all the boys talk to each other like a lot of "Cockneys"I am sending by this letter a Photo of my crackBombardier (Ronald Cavalier of Malvern 19 years of age)He is admitted by everybody to be the smartestBombardier in the Brigade & he made a name forhimself by being the first man to Qualify in the verystiff Gun Laying Tests recently held. He is another ofmy boys who, by his willing & loyal assistance, hashelped to make my Subsection a most successful one.In the Photo, the Gun Layers Badge is to be seenjust above his stripe (L for Layer).I am pleased to tell you that I am in thevery best of health & the pink of condition andthat my "bingy" is gradually decreasing. You willsee by my Photo that I have no moustache & it ismy strong intention not to grow one, so you canrest assured on that point. I am simply in myGlory & altho' we are getting a little tired of thisplace, we are still a very happy lot, even tho'all the Tradesmen still charge us exhorbitantprices for everything. The advertisements & signspainted on every shop in Egypt are quite correct,"Special Prices for Australian Soldiers". (Twice theprice is the rule). I hope that the Australian Publicis quite convinced by now, that Captain Bean is notworthy of being an Australian. Several English paperssuch as the "Times" "Daily Mirror" & other big journalshave sent Press representatives out to Egypt to havea look at us & we all feel highly flattered bytheir comments on the Australian Soldier in Egypt.I am glad to know that everybody at home is sowell. I cannot say what joy it gives me to get lettersfrom Home. So long as I get a letter from you andMab, I dont care a hang if I dont get any others.I hope Miss Taylor is well. Give her my kindregards & thank her for her kind enquiries. Tell herthat the two blue calico (or something else) bags which shealso kindly made for me, are still in use & are amongst the handiest articles I have brought from Melbourne.I am glad to know that Jack Tilton is going tohave a shot for the Contingent. I should think hewould have a very good chance, only for his age.I cant imagine how any unmarried man abovethe age of 21, who has no encumbrances whatever,can resist enlisting for the War. Personally, if Ihad stayed at home, I would never have been ableto hold my head up & look any decent girl in the face.Surely everyone must realise that the Empireis going thro a Crisis it has never gone thro before,& that every one is expected to do his duty now.I hope Mr Algie can fix George up alright & Ialso hope Mrs Algie is quite well by now. Give mykind regards to both Mr, Mrs & Belle Algie.I often think of all relations so dont let themthink Ive forgotten them.Well, Mother dear, Ill close now till next weekso with fondest love to all at Home & else-where & an extra ration for yourself I remain.Your loving Son, Norman I hope you had thatblow out on your birthdaythat I said you were to have.All the boys in the Mess drank your health &wish you a Many Happy Returns of the Day. look on the backof this page) PsGive my love to FlossN.G.E. I met Bert Handley tonight in the Sergeants Canteenhe is looking fine.