Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Somewhere in FranceDate: 30 July 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Before next Sunday I think we'll be in IT - for wehave been moving up steadily the last three days - andare now close to the immediate "Fire Zone". We are atpresent just a mile or two in rear of the position fromwhich our parent (10th) launched out - and accordingto time arrangements - we should be well in too - inabout 3 days time.Many old friends have gone already. Horper (killed)Hillier & McLaren (old A.H.S. boys) also - while Giles isbowled over "shell shock" after 36 hours shelling of anadvanced position he was holding - McCann got acrack in the head - Inglis lower part of face knockedcrooked - while Hubbe - (old 79th) is fine - so you cansee the old Batt got severely pasted in carrying outthe work they were asked to do.The remnants of our old Batt assisted 8 hugecounter attacks from the Prussian Guard - & knocked theguts out of them. I saw some of my old boys. Theyreckon they had the time of their lives - Fight - &bombs! no one could reckon how many he'd thrown.The old Bde. will get some decorations - three havebeen recommended for very high ones - (Beames theNorwood footballer is one) - while Shaw did great workand is now almost a physical wreck through overstrain. 48 Melville cleaned 400 Yds of Hun trenches with a bomb team,& is still 'beserk' - he is said to be recommended for a V.C.Campbell (cricketer) and Blackburn also did great workHamilton was observed kicking Huns out of a 'dugout'Jack was 'mad' - and his language was lurid, whenhe got in the 'pozzy' he booted out 5 Fritzes in quick time.One of my platoon Huon has also been recommendedfor a decoration - for carrying up bombs.My old C Co. did great work - started with 5 off. 190 menand came out with 2 & 90 respectively. Many of myold rfts. have fought their last battle. Hurrell,Keen, Mayfield, Eldridge, Shipley have all done theirjob - Lynch is still going strong.My boys have great confidence in themselves, & so have IFrom what I can gather from the old Brigade - I havebeen right in what I have taught them, as I emphasisedbomb-throwing, bayonet fighting, trench rushing, passingof messages, & conservation of supplies, so if my boys failit won't be through want of proper instructionWeir, Redburg, Hamilton, Coombe (lieut now) and Kinnickcame through O.K., & now the old Brigade is busyretraining & refitting. Our turn is next & I am confidentwe will do as well as the 10th did, & that I will pullthrough O.K. It is time a little luck (MC &c) camemy way, but I don't care a damn for - Aug 3rd 1916 (next letter)July 30th - 1916 50