Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Cove.Date: 18 July 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: I've got some ink as you see.- Got an ink tabletfrom a returned officer. Have met the greater part ofmy men, but 3 or 4 others are missing too. Hayesmy champ. at bayonet - & anchor man in tug of warhas been picked out for a machine gun course, & Ravenwhose boy I taught at Norwood will probably be sentback for physical inability. Goode is somewhere in Hosp2 Hulceslaters are down with some complaint, Cummins missedthe train - & Winter is a moral derelict in V.D. Hospital.We are a pretty strong battalion now - but we have a veryextensive and important position to hold. Many of us feel the strain already but at each week end we are goingto change watches & shifts- so that the nines will get acertain amount of relief. The Turkish bombs have appreciably scarce lately to our relief, but we have sucha supply that for every one we receive we give back two.Also we have erected at our worst bombed place a wirenetting screen, which we hoist up every night. CandidlyI don't think much of this as a bomb-stopper- but themoral assurance it gives the men is great, & it is worthputting up even for that reason.My chum officers in Aussie were going to post meup in mil. news - but not a word have I heard.Paul & his crew are in Egypt now, & we expect tosee them soon. I hope you got that enlargedphoto. from Marchant of my 5th reinforcements.My arm is pretty stiff today- inoculated againstcholera just now. We have now been inoc. 3times, & vaccinated once - and one of my boystoday whilst going through the mill - remarked"we only need to be inoculated with concrete andwe would be shrapnel proof too". My originalbatman, Scott, is once more with me, & it is fineto have my things well looked after & my mealswell cooked again. He is a good fellow and I hopehe pulls through O.K. I will close now with bestlove - hoping all are well as I am.26.7.15Here we are in a new series of trenches - tunnelledout underground from our old lines. We have advancedour firing line about 100 yds, and we are only afew yards away from well concealed Turkish trenches We are now having bomb warfare pure & simple - ratherpure & serious. Jacko has just about got superiority atpresent but we expect to turn things a bit before long.The moon just now is too bright & rises in their favourso we get particular hell from their bombs at thispoint - Their throwers are under cover & well out ofsight so that our rifle-fire is wasted over them - ourfuse bombs they laugh at, & we can only stop themby sending them huge charges of gun-cotton.Last night or two we regained superiority againbut three of my men were wounded today. Hughes& Edwards were only 5 yds. away - the former was mostfrightfully mauled - I tried to stop the bleeding - buthe was cut everywhere - and I was glad when thedoctor cameMcDonald, another of my men, was in a narrowrecess with three others when a bomb landed. If ithad gone off the 4 would have been outed. butMac cooly took up a 'lucky' greatcoat, covered thebomb, & put all his weight on the coat - so that hesmothered the bomb. I have reported this matter& McDonald should get the D.C.M.I have been transferred to the Platoon No.9 -asJack Hamilton has returned & taken over No.10. Theseplatoons are 'twins' - nearly all Br. Hill men - andin firing line together so the transfer is nominal. Anyhow I've had this lot a fortnight now andget on well with them all - as it is in an efficient stateGetting to know the men is the chief thing - once that isdone - discipline & so on follow. I have seen & still seemany officers much senior to me, having a most miserabletime - simply because it is too much 'fag' to find outsomething about the men under themI have 9 of my old originals - as well as some 6 ofold B company - Ascot Park - so that of my Platoonknew me pretty well from the jump. About 30 of the5th Rein. are in this Company. Rainey (Scott's Creek)was outed by a bomb the other day - The Turks willget bombs when we get at them with the bayonet.Trench work does not agree with Australians. Thegeneral condition of our chaps after 'summer' in thetrenches is pitiable - God help us if we have to dothe winter here. If we were asked to advance nowI candidly believe we would not get past the firstTurkish trench - we seem to lose our dash - withtoo much 'digging' & fatigue, night watching, livingunderground, tinned salt meat &c - the constitution ofthe men has been much undermined. There arepersistent rumours of the 1st Div. being withdrawnto reorganize & recuperate. It is necessary, but mostof us prefer to see this thing through come what may.Some big move is going to be made soon, and we want to be in it. I'm certain we can neverget this peninsula now by force - something willhave to go wrong with Turkey - internal dissension,starvation, or intrigue are our best assets.Otherwise we're certain to lose 1/3 of our men.We've made the same mistake as in S.Africa. -not enough men at the jump to carry on aftera favorable start. The Admiralty must bear thechief blame - the demonstrations of Feb. & Marchput the acid on the military question. On Feb 26the 'Triumph' had an observation station onAchi Baba!! Now we're struggling for that hill -and certain of our guns are limited to 4 shotsa day. Ian Hamilton is supposed to have gonehome for a rest - & Smith Dorrien is supposed tobe here - but I don't know if these rumors are O.K.My O.C. received more than 20 applications frommy old 'G.' boys to be transferred to my platoon - andhe 'shut the lid' on the lot- so that I can't getan old 79th who wanted to come to me.We look forward to mails more eagerly thana civilian does regarding Sunday, we get themabout every 10 days or so. My mails have all comethrough & I am content. It is helpful to get yourinspiring letters, & I've had word from Tom Pitman,Fred Hamish, & Carthew lately. Rollo.