Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: MudlandDate: 30 November 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Dear Father, Mother & All, -Ive just got 20 min. to reply to yours of Oct. 15 - just recd - so I will haveto write like greased lightning to get done in time.Thank you very muchfor your splendid birthday parcel & the cable whichI recd. - the parcel was tip-top - & could not have beenmore welcome than it was - for we are having rathera "rough spin" physically at any rate.Your letter was morepleasing than getting a D.S.O &c - thank God I havenot to get a decoration to show what Im made of -Major Herbert- or Beresford & Rule can give youfull information re our first stunt.- I must confesswhen we found how the decorations went for thatfirst stunt - & I was in the cold - I candidly spokemy mind to the originator of that Aug 14th stunt -for the M.C. given to C.S was earned by my men. -However its over & done with now & I am satisfied tobe without it - & hope none come my way later on.We are still under fire & above (or in) mud - & weexpect to be well out of the front line before Xmas -The Brigadier has been well pleased with my men, & heldup their work (under snow & slush conditions) as anexample for the other cos. to follow. I suppose George is getting excited as he will be leavingsoon. It will be hard on you to have two of us herebut I am sure you are proud of the fact that yourboys have the mental & moral as well as physical guts -to take up their positions in the countrys ranks - insteadof shirking behind cold-footed excusesAnyhow no young fellow can surely stay behind withpeace of mind at a time like thisI will apply for leave so as to meet G. in Englandsoon after he comes - & you might let me know roughlythe date you anticipate he will land.G. can look after himself I know - he will think toomuch of you at home - to make his actions otherthan what youd like - so hell be O.K.Harry is having a rough spin for his boyhood - butthank God he hopes to follow in our steps. Iexpect he is looking forward to his school life in town& if he goes to a boy's school - he will be O.K. as longas it is not the S.M. & J. prepar. which is not educational.I hope youll be nearer town soon so as to miss thatlong & expensive railway journey. The mailman is waitingfor me - so Ill close with best of all good wishes forthe New Year - happiness, success, good health, & prosperitywith much love fromYour Loving RolloI hope Wumps is satisfied & kept in her old positions