Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Gaba Tepe Date: 13 June 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Hurrah. mail yesterday. I got Bulletin, Observer,Chronicle - S.E. Times & Leader - but no letters - so asI didn't want to look out of it I pulled out yourletter of April 20th & read it through twice.It was a pleasure to get the newspapers - but wehave not taken Maidos nor have the French captured8000 prisoners near Charnak as the papers report.Things are in such a state here that we areno further in than we were on April 25th - wehaven't enough men - but when we get them - well"Imshi Turk' - but then we have their super Gibral.Acha Baba has to be settled - and as combinedMil. & Naval efforts so far have not done much - wemay be here a long time yet. Anyhow nothing canshift us from here we are so well dug in.The 3rd Bng. were the covering party in the landingand got it hottest as casualty list shows - butthings are brightening up now, for many of ourwounded have recovered and returned - sowe are as strong now - as at the Landing.B Cy 10th saved the situation - but only thosein the know as regards true casualties willrealise the cost. An acqtnse of mine (J Weatherall)won D.C.M., & T. Smith would have got D.S.O.Brand was promoted to Lt Col. + D.S.O. & Holmeswas prom. to Capt. & other recom. have been made &nothin doin yet. I just got here in time, aspromotions were being made from the ranks -but as my appt. dates from March 24th. I amsenior to them. Henword A.H.S. is prom. to 2nd Lieut. Ireland is with A.Co. but we are trying to workso that he comes over to our Co. Information? wellI've said too much, but I can't refrain from addingthat during the next few days there will besomething doing as far as 3rd Brigade is concerned.Hoorah! - imagine a letter has just beenhanded to me dated May 3rd. It was amonga batch of delayed letters - has been at B.H.Q fortwo days - & just sent up to me by Holmes. Itis great to get news from home - & now this shouldcome regularly with all other mails. You areright re short stay in Egypt - but re a quickadvance to Constan. I don't think we'll everget there - In taking this spot - Hamiltonconsiders it was too costly - so we won't beadvancing for some time yet - but of courseone never knows. Wake up Mil. re allotments.Twice we've had bread 1/- a loaf -, 5 of us inour mess - & we have a good cook who makesstews from beef, biscuits, onions, & spuds.I left Photo &c for Wumps to fix up.Cairo is a filthy hole & I was sorry to leavemy men there - Bean laid the brush on abit thick - too straight for some folks - but I'msorry to say his remarks fit some officers too. Colonel Weir set a fine example - but thiscannot be said of one or two other battn.Regard to Casualties - they're short - forapparently attempts have been made toconceal from home-folk true casualties.Anyhow wounded list will never be fullypublished, as it was a staggerer - but asmost of these are now back with us - it wd.only have caused anxiety and trouble.Whatever you do - don't take notice of rumors,if anything goes wrong the Def. Dept willnotify you. Rumors don't count. I knowAdelaide and the cold footed folk - too well.Dickenson has come - I am glad of that asI always had faith in Dickie - TomWilliams & Co. were too keen on getting ourjobs I suppose - but we'll make things hotfor the 'cold-footers' when we get back. ThenBob Alcorn - Tom Pitman & Co - where are they?Weds Possingham is L.Corp. & called this afternoon- Gib Edwards is a Corp.Poor Alf Possingham is gone - he was doinggreat work - I met his Col. (Eliott) at Lemnos -& he had a fine opinion of Alfie -Wumps sent along photo of group 5/10. Recd. Harry'sblood-thirsty sketches. Send along envelopes & paper. Rollo.