Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Gaba TepeDate: 7 May 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: We are very short of writing material - so send alongenclosed note to Bema & George.I was only in Cairo 3 or 4 days - & left Alexandria in atub called the 'Australind'. - a miserable 3 days on board& then dropped off at Lemnos. From Mudros we went acrossto Gallipoli in tug-boats, & as a few subs. were knockingabout, we were expecting to swim for it every time, butfortunately I met Father Neptune a few weeks ago -so he felt kindly to us.Anyhow we landed at Anzac Cove at 4.30 a.m. & Igot my "baptism of fire". My first sensations of thewhizz of bullets, and weird sound of shells commencedat once as we were under fire all the time. One shelllanded about 10 yds. off & splashed the men in theboat. Then when on shore I had to work like blazesto take men to 8 different battalions. I was quiteignorant of "Sniper's Corner", "Double up Point", "Hurry upBend" &c, & ran some heavy risks. At one place I wasgreeted with a good old salvo - three shots quite close -the others were well above. Of these three two raised thedust in the bank alongside, & the third clipped a busha yard to my rear. - The Staff forgot to tell me thatI should have waited till evening when troops only are moved,& there I was trotting around in broad daylight from5 to 7 a.m. However it wasn't much of a baptism,& I've been pretty right ever since.I reached the 10th & many old acquaintances at 10 a.m.& was sent right away to the trenches. These are prettycomfortable - & we are not much worried by the Turks,but frequent bursts of bullets & a few shells break themonotony. We are well dug in, & I have only seen 1 killed. Now for a word about the country. Imagine apiece of land (the hills about Anstey's Hill will do)with the sea right up to them. Some of these hills areas high & steep as those on either side of Water Gullyroad, - well now you have the type of country, ourboys are working in. I can't say how they gotup these hills - but they did it - at a cost scarcelyreckoned up yet. Now all over the shoreward sidesare dug-outs - thousands of them - & on top, lines oftrenches in all directions. This is as far as we've got.To a casual observer we will be pushed back into thesea - but if he looks closer he will see we will neverbe pushed back. I spent a morning or two at Mvilletrenching - but I had not the slightest conception ofwhat a trench was till I got here, & my word my eyeshave been opened. We are busy all the time somethingdoing every night - patrols, night attacks, wire setting,bomb expeditions &c. to keep us from developing "Ennui".Trench life consists of 12 days in & 3 days out andwe are resting at present. In the trenches we sleepwhen we can only in snatches in one 54 hour periodI got 3 short snoozes of less than 2 hours' duration.It's a case of 'Mind your head' all the time - forthe scouts & snipers are far from Silenced.We get bacon for breakfast, onions for stew, & plenty of"bully" and biscuits, sometimes fresh meat, but breadso far is unknown. As luxuries we get a tin of milkor a bottle of sauce - whilst an issue is made weekly ofcigarettes & tobacco weekly & an issue of rum when necessaryThe men are tired of waiting about, but are all merry. The men are splendid, but their language is toughThe "Jack Tars" have stopped swearing now, & hand thebelt to the Aussies. - whose language they admitis far more empathic than theirs. The R.N. officerssay the Aussies' language alone was good enough todrive the Turks back - & that if the Aussies hadn'tlost their wind climbing those hills they'd haveblasted the Turks right out of the peninsula. Thesailors are full of all sorts of marvellous yarns ofour boys' prowess - e.g. "a party of the 10th wereemptied out in deep water & went right under; theysoon came up to the surface (talking of course) buteach man had fixed bayonets while underneath"The Aussies also tell some good ones re the Navy."At the landing, one ship used up all her 4.7 shells- but the Johnnies not to be beaten - rammed in &fired 6" shells from 4.7 guns"However great friendship exists between Aussies & R.N.This is the last day of our Rest the first day we allslept - the next day we slept, & today we're just beginningto feel O.K. We've had two washes since I came here -each in the sea - with bullets dropping all round - butmuch we cared - the bath was just the thing.The sunsets here are lovely - & we get long twilights. Justopposite us is "Imbros" & Samothrace has a mountainwhich just cuts off part of the sun when setting.Our mail is 12 days behind & I've not heard from yousince April 20th - seven weeks ago. So you can guess how I feel. Rollo