Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Gallipoli Peninsular Date: 20 June 1915 Nationality: AustralianLast mail week overdue - but as we have been notifiedportion has been destroyed by fire we don't feel toohappy about it - & I suppose it'll be for ever overdue.I met another Millicent chap - (used to be at Millicent)named Williams - used to have Gurr's job - now withA Com. in 9th L.H. By the way the L.H. are all here.dismounted - horses left in Egypt.We go out "visiting" here & also have "reception" days.Capt. Shaw & I get on well together & I have metnearly all the L.H. officers (as well as Inf) who left S.A.Lance Lewis told me the latest of Frank White - whomhe'd heard was very seriously ill. Also met Sid Rowell.& several others, including A.H.S. boys. It is nice to haveHenwood (A.H.S.) as a brother officer in 10th - but of courseit doesn't make up for the loss of Munro.Promotions are going to be slow in the 10th- for theywere last made, just before I arrived, & we will haveto go through heavy casualties before more chances arrive.Holmes has a bit of shrapnel in the stomach & is inHospital with a mere fighting chance. He had been doingwell - & chances are improving.Jacko is tuning up considerably with his artillery.which was reported to us as "short of ammun." - but tojudge from the way they keep firing they have farmore than we have to my fancy.We are supposed to be awaiting the Greeks - but I amafraid we'll get very little help from them- as theyare very half-hearted.There is truth in reports of spies in 1st Contingentfor I've seen official reports of 2 "justifiable homicides"& a N.Z.. Sergeant was caught signalling to Jacko & shot. Gallipoli was described by one Germ. general asbeing the hardest etrat nut in the world - so ourG.O.C. has almost used the same words.Anyhow until we get Achet Baba we can'tadvance an inch - so we're ignorant of whatis in front of us. From what we can see, whenwe go forward for a general advance we willget 'hell'. The Turks & Germans are great -marvellous as regards engineering andconcealment of guns. I will be able to tell youa few astounding facts later - but not now.I don't know how long we are to be inTrenches - but I'm certain it's for a fewweeks yet.I was 'officer of watch' in trenches theother day, & a party of strange officers camethrough. Their badges showed they wereStaff - but no rank badges were worn. Twoof them turned out to be Birdwood & Walker& I treated them as ordinary Staff visitorslooking at our trenches - but nothing eventuatedA Corp. in our Co. knows Spender & was atHtn for a while - name's Hunter -decent chapmy Men are the 'Blind 50' in Camp or Barracksbut they're grand soldiers in the trenches. How they will shape in an advance I don't know.Colonel Weir too is wondering - for if we do getforward we get into a land of plenty of wine- that is their weakness. or was at 'Menai'.Anyhow they understand it's no light thingto come up for simple crimes on Act. Serv.& there will be no leniency from me - if anyfunny business starts.My platoon has a history - & according tohistory & reports on conduct sheets they"made history" in Cairo - but so far I'vehad no trouble with them - but when wereturn to civilised quarters I expect tohave a few ructions. Active Serv disciplineis very diff to Camp or Barracks - andall crimes committed are punishable by death.My Reinf. have not yet come but are due.21st June Just recd. 2nd mail - 21.6.1915 [*23.6.15*] Have just had orders to take out 150 men todig a new trench tonight on our right flank23rd June 23.6.1915 Too tired to write yesterday. 11th (W.A)) put 200men digging - while 50 of 10th dug Com. trench[*First STUNT.*] from old to new one. Remaining 50 I had totake out to front to cover diggers. With 250men on pick & shovel nouse was heard by T. Rollo.