Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Serapeum Date: 17 April 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: I had a day in Cairo last week end - only had a shortnotice so I jumped at my last chance. Visited the zoo& the Barrage - took some snaps which I hope develop O.K.I motored to the Barrage with Rumball, Gove & Hogarth -& the trip of 30 mls only cost me 10/- The black dust ofthe earth road to the Delta was rather trying - but the B.made up for the discomfort. There's a fine Bot. Gardenattached to the Barrage - & with good soil, plenty of water, &the cheap Gippo labor - have produced gardens which runours very closely as regards being picturesque - The buildingof the B. is ornamental as well as useful - at either end& the centre of the wall - they represent a castle wall - so thatthe B. itself looks like the boundary wall of a big castle.The water runs through huge sluices, & there are all kinds ofmatic walks. fancy birds, fairy bridges, &c in the gardens. Barrage & Zoo.I spent two most delightful hours here, & hope my snapsdevelop O.K. for they show some fine, picturesque scenes.We went back to Cairo - & after lunch put in 3 hours atthe Ghiza Zoo. I nearly went mad with the fine gardens,rustic scenes, shrubs, lawns &c - it seamed so like home again.except the niggers rather spoiled the effect. I took about30 snaps - and included animals too - as the collectionof animals & birds is very good. I hope my shots at thegiraffes, rhinoceros, &c are O.K. as they are new animalsto me - the Gnu were failures as they kept in theshade. - & wouldn't get out in a decent light.I very reluctantly left the Zoo to catch the train back here -but I spent one of the pleasantest days of my life, so althoextremely tired I was well contented. The train journeytoo was delightful. First a fine typical Egyptian sunset -then moonrise - (nearly full) - & both were exactly like onereads about or sees pictured - but rarely personallyexperiences. The palms, mosques, various villages werethrown up against a mass of blazing gold to the W, &their various colors everywhere - well it was a mostawe-inspiring sunset. - The moon had a softer effectit didn't seem so brazen - but to see the palms, minaretssilhouetted against it - well it was a most peaceful effect.I arrived back at 11.30 p.m. & you can guess I sleptO.K. as I rose at 3.30 a.m. to catch the train- butwas a great trip - & I have now been most of the sightsof Egypt - & especially the wonderful sunset effects. I had not understood the expression "the enchantment ofEgypt" before - until that train trip- but I do now -& if I get through our 'stunt' I mean to revisit Egypt.If the 'nigs' could only be transferred it could be aParadise - instead of the Inferno as in most parts.We are still out in this sun-dried, wind-swept, &most miserable hole, guarding the Canal. How we allcurse drill & sun, dust & wind, in fact the daytimeis as unwelcome as bully beef & dog biscuit - (& onlyan Anzac of July & Aug 15 will realise what that meant)but the nights are beautiful. The moon is nearly full,the wind drops at night, & we welcome night almostas much as Aust. mails which lately are not tooregular.To get back to military news; you can realise ourfeelings when we read of the 10th marching through Paris,(1st Divvy) France seemingly went mad over our boyswho are billetted now about 10 miles behind the Front.Apparently they will be in action before us. One feelsa bet mserable to read about ones old regiment, & notto be with it - (Weir is back O.C. again) but our turn willcome directly - though it seems a long way off.A big mistake is being made keeping us here too longfor we are over-trained, & we have the d-'s own job tokeep our men from going to the pack through staleness.It is so monotonous here - that we all long for orders toget away to the Firing line - as Trench work is never dull there The 9th L.H. sent a squadron inland from our oldpozzy (Habeita) & they got to work on a small Jackooutpost, - took about 30 prisoners, - mopped up the wholegarrison except 2. I only wish we had some such stuntit would brighten our men up wonderfullyVerdun push looks a big stunt - and both sidesare getting pretty hard hit. France admits she lost17000 prisoners alone - & no doubt the Huns were 'all out'too - as they seem to have drawn troops from all parts.and they've been hit to leg badly too. It seems strangethe British had to take over a big section of the Frenchfront about 3 weeks ago - but our tum will come next.& altho' many of us expect "to stop one" it will be worthit - if we can give the 'push' which will crumple upFritz properly.I saw Sid Lehmann the other evening he's quite anice, straight chap again, & doing well. Jack McLaughlinwas here last night - I mixed him up with Frank - butwe know one another now - & had a fine, long chatMy news is not much - we expect an Aust.mail tomorrow, & will write replies at once.I hope you are all as well as I am, & close withgood wishes & much love fromRollo