Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Cove West Mudros Lemnos Date: 24 November 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Good by to Anzac Cove West Mudros Lemnos24.11.1915I hope you recd. my mail posted 14 11 - as thereare rumors that it was sunk in a storm I puta lot of time into a Christmas Card for you all - & alsowrote my birthday letter (11th ) as well as letters to Uncle &friends. So I do hope that mail has not gone. Shealso carried many monetary gifts from the 'boys' tothe loved ones in "Aussie" - as I knew as censor.Not only did that storm fix up the outgoing mailbut some coming in also went down - & 2 bags of mailfor 10th went astray. Some stuff was sent to 10th NavalBrig. by mistake & reached us eventually. - I got yoursOct 3rd & papers - but it seems as tho' parcels had gone.An additional mail reached us on 14th so I recd yourcablegram - parcels of goodies &c. from Wumps & yourselves -The cap I wear constantly at night - and I can tellyou all your gifts were appreciated very much indeed.The mitts & cap were a 'godsend' - for the week afterwas a very hard & bitter one - for the 10th particularlyThe relief of the 3rd Brigade started on the 14th whentwo batts. were sent away to Mudros. Next day we wereout of the line - but were not able to embark owing tothe great storm. We were in open bivouac on the sideof a bare hill for 4 or 5 days of fearfully rough &cold weather. The first night we were all wet through& as for mud - we were nearly buried in it. Cold! [*Last days on Gallipoli*] Cold! Well whoever told you Gallipoli had a mildclimate like Millicent was a liar - He ought to come here &try it for himself, I should not care to go through the sameagain for 1000. Mind you it was open bivouac - no dugoutsor shelter - absolutely under sky, clouds, wind &c. alone.Next day water supply broke down - & no stores could belanded on account of rough weather - so all the food wehad was a very small issue of beef & bread once a day.Blankets & greatcoats for two days were mudsodden &wetand I can tell you things were very bad indeed.When we embarked on the transport the weather againbecame too rough to land us - & as there were no extra storesfor such an emergency once more we had "fast" daysWe only landed yesterday (23rd) & had a 4 mile tramp tothis camp. Thank heavens we had tents to go into - goodwarm tents, and with a huge hot dinner we weresoon O.K. again. But it was a very rough experiencethe very worst since the Landing - & I don't wantany more similar. Those last 6 days put about 50of ours into Hospital - & other batts. suffered too.Well we are relieved - but if Col. Weir could seethe battn. he would weep. Only 5 of the original officersleft - & only 75 men - the rest are reinforcements Wemust have looked a rag-tag lot as we struggled to thisrest camp. Here we found 3 complete reinforcementswaiting for us, & about 50 of our sick or wounded nowconvalescent. but the addition of these will by no meansmake us up to full battalion strength. I can tell you we are fit only for a good long rest -- there are only a few who stuck it longer than II commenced May 26th & feel proud of myself.You can't imagine how I felt when I 'fell in' myold No. 9 Platoon this morning - 1/5 of the men were utterstrangers - (new reinfctmts) - and as I had grown with thebattalion & its old personnel - it was hard to noticehow many of the old faces had gone. Only 7 areleft of those I took over - many of course are awaysick or wounded - but a lot have gone for ever.Now is the time we feel what war is. Reaction issetting in - & I can notice several "old hands" cracking upWe rest the men as much as possible - but of coursegive a fair amount of exercise. Food! well freshmeat, new bread daily; fruit, condensed milk, tea &c,show the boys are doing well - and a daily issue ofrum with a pint of beer as well will soon set usup again - When we return to the firing line we willbe re-charged with energy, & Jacko will find the2nd edition of the 10th much more 'awful' than hefound us about Oct. One of my boys 'Spooner' - hadgone sick from Anzac to Egypt - & got on the burst there.He put an end to himself - & we are all very sad over it.We took the Company out for a walk today - thecountry is not so hilly as Imbros - & as it is autumn.it cannot be compared with Imbros in summer. Mudros has a large Harbor - but it would not do tosay anything about its contents In the days of Troy, thenatives say they had 2500 boats in the harbor for thatexpedition well we haven't so many - but quite a lot.A retired Greek merchant told me that yarnabout the Grk. fleet - he made his pile in Cairo -& has promised me some Greek stamps in exchangefor Aussie ones.The inhabitants of this island have changed theirvocations since war began at this end - men whowere 'husbandmen' are now smugglers. Pretend tosell chocolate, almonds &c. to the boys, but intheir baskets under their goods they hide a vile"Cognac" which is nothing more than scented meth.spirits. Anyhow any Dago I catch with the stuffI'll 'lay out' - & these d - d. Dagoes are nothingbut robbers & spies Tinned fruit, milk &c. costmore than at Anzac - & I would dearly love toshoot some of these birds who rook the boysright & left. We regard them as worse enemiesto us than the Turks, & I believe every otherGreek here would fight against us if it cameto a fair test. However our time will comesome day, & things will move this way if weshould declare war on Greece.I met Gurr, (in 12th) & Batt - and MLaughlinis about somewhere - but I've not seen him yet. By the way I hope you don't think I'm ahuge smoker - I only have a pipe after tea -& occasionally a cigarette - I had to take itup as the stench at "Lone Pine" was appallingI have been visiting other arms lately, & havemade a friend of Lieut Kenst a Vic. officer of2nd Co. Field Engineers. He is a decent chap - & withCharlie Hooper (one of our 6th Rfts) we are justgoing for a sail round the Harbor.The boat is such a heavy tub we call herShamrock Nth. I also visited the Artilleryfrequently & feel like going in for that branchif I come through O.K. What I don't knowabout Artillery would fill many books.Lieut. Toomey of Sydney has given me somevery interesting & useful details.I will write again next week - & will sendyou a New Years Day mail in place of theXmas one of mine which probably has gone.Harry's drawings are very interesting - I havenow a fine nucleus for an Anzac Art Gallery.Well - good luck to you all - much love,& be in as good health as I am now.Excuse scribble - fingers cold.Your lovingRollo.