Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 20 May 1915 Location: Suez Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Arrival Suez Egypt. Suez 10. a.m. 20. 5. 15Disembark today for Cairo.Well we have landed, & entrained to Cairo from Suez &as soon as possible we will be sent to the front. Egypt isnot a bad place as regards climate, the heat does notaffect me - but the glare of the sand does.This letter will be a sad one in many ways - GordonMunro has gone - he was in action only a few minutes.I dug up a wounded 12th man (100 wounded here) & hewas alongside Gordon when it happened. I daresayyou know the account of the Aussie's landing - abrilliant feat. - Well - Munro jumped out of the bowsof his boat followed by his platoon, up to armpitsin the sea, & under machine gun-fire from sandhills,150 or less yds away, got ashore safely with some men.The Tassies were ordered to fix bayonets & charge thesemachine guns - by short, sharp rushes, & when about70 yds. away charged. Munro led this charge withno bayonet or rifle - merely his revolver - & when afew yards from the enemy - called to his men-"Keep together, & give the beggars a go" - & thenimmediately fell - shot in the stomach.I felt miserable all day yesterday on account ofthis news - Poor old Gordon - he & I had been closecomrades since we first met at A.H.S. 1910- & I hadbeen so looking forward to joining with him again. Arrival Egypt Gordon Giles, Alec Fraser - (see Pyr. photo - (one with thehelmet) Talbot Smith & many others are reported to have goneunder - & almost every 10th officer was wounded.The 10th got it very hot, being the second battn to land, - the 9th(Queenslanders) being first of all, & getting much cut up. about 75%of both batts. reported killed or wounded. Every S.A. officer in12th was killed or wounded - Kayser had half an ear shot off.Jorgensen wounded - Tom Holland got a scalp wound which willpart his hair for ever. He has two brothers with us - fine lads.He has rejoined his unit. Birt was slightly wounded too, & wehear since he has been done for.The 9th had 39 men at the close of 25.4.15 - & all reinforcements are up.The 10th were badly hit, & have already drawn on 4th Reinforcemts.altho' Ireland & Moule have not yet gone. I hope they are notbeing kept to take our lot - we want to stick to our own men.Our chaps after being teetotallers for over a month, could not allremain straight when we got on land - 16 were A.W.L. thismorning - but all except two or three have turned up.Yesterday - (Sat. holiday) Ireland took Hancock & me forsightseeing. We went to the Citadel, & visited 8 mosques. TheCitadel is a fine old place & so are the mosques - but I wasvery tired before we finished. The Mosques are something totalk about - it would be useless trying to write about them.It was a pleasure to meet Ireland & Moule in thisstrange land - you can't realise what it meant to us.We'd had a fairly miserable time on the boat - the Vic. officers,with one or two exceptions, were pups - & it was good to seea fresh 'old' face - such as Ireland's & Moule's.I will now describe our disembarkation. We thought we'dgo to Pt. Said for orders but we were stopped at Suez, (19th)& notified to land at once, but for some reason remained on board.I was officer of the guard & had to remain up all night, to seespecially that no-one 'hopped it'. Rollo