Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: FroglandDate: 12 February 1917 Nationality: Australian Text: Dear Father & Mother, -Just had word from Dad -(20.12.16) which puts me on pins & needles for it statesthat G was likely to be on the "Omrah" which issupposed to be due in London on the 14th - & mostunfortunately on that date we go back to the frontfor our second tour. So it will not be possible forme to dream of getting leave for another 10 or 11days - so you can imagine how I feel.However the Omrah may bedelayed, that might to mean that when I getto England G. should be kicking about somewhere.Anyhow it is pretty certain that I will be inLondon before this letter gets far towards Australia.I hope he makes straight forL-pool. I'll go there too as soon as I getmy bag of glad rags.Things liven up here occasionallyFritz is likely trying 'gas' - but we are verywell equipped against this, so that if Fritz comesover after 'gas' to see how we like it - he willfind us going strong. Raids come off now& then - & Fritz must be praying that Billwill soon say "Nuff" - for he is getting verymuch worried in this bit of the world. Submarines seem a bit busy just now, butthe R.N. will soon fix them up. Perhaps there issome advantage - if the people in England are abit pinched they will realise a war is on -altho' unfortunately many people (like us) whorealise the gravity of the position are ratherpinched already.I hope to have a look round the E End ofLondon - things must be awful there especiallyduring this terrible cold weather.The frost still holds - well for us - & I hopeit does so till we get well to the rear. Forwhen the thaw comes it will be 'hell' up here.Les Pelman got us far as Etaples (our Depot)but he was still across to the 27th. One of theLamberts (Hermitage) is in my Co. but I don'tremember him - there were so many of that clan.Wilf Edwards just wrote - & I've had an A.M.Smag - I must write to Reggie West.The cold plays up with our boys feet - & our boysare not getting fair play. The 3rd Div has notyet been in action - but some day they'll learna war is on. U.S.A is cooling off - as you were.No more news - best of all good wishes, goodluck & prosperity with very much love fromYour loving son, Rollo.Birthday greetings to Dad.