Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: France Date: 1 March 1917 Nationality: Australian Text:Dear Father and Mother,Just our luck - we aremissing all the interesting work in front. I told youin my previous letter we were going up - we havebeen & 'gone'. Whilst we were in we were to have hada 'hop over' - but sudden plans in the rear stoppedit at the last moment. Then we were relieved, &nowwe are back in rear. The very next night Fritzevacuated three or four lines in front of our position,it was our bad luck to be going rearwards, whilstthe relieving battn was pushing forward.Fritz has now gone further back - Le Baque& Ligny which were in front of position, arenow in our hands. Fritz is said to have stronglines at &through Thilloy - so therell be somethingdoing there next. If we get Fritz away from therehe may have to fall back as far as Cambrai - butsomehow I think he's gone back as far as he intends.Things were very interesting up there for a dayor two - for open warfare was nearly put into beingonce again. Somehow I think that the Springwill find us fighting new open tactics again.Our stunt was a very stiff one, &probablywould have cost us 75% to take &hold - & wouldhave been a very brilliant piece of work. Perhaps its just as well it didn't come off as theboys were very "weary" after two months hardwork in the mud, slush &snow of the front areas.Now we're in the rear I'm battling for Special leaveto get to England to meet George - but these newmovements in front have put the acid on all leaveabsolutely - I might just as well apply to meetyou in Australia. I've sent in to Corps H Quartersso I may have a chance after all.It's bad luck to finally miss it after refusingit for the last two months.We are very busy re-fitting &re-organising& don't expect to be here long. I will write againin a day or two.No mail has come from you for some timebut one is rumoured to be near at hand so I willget my letters then.I will close now with very, very much love toyou all, &best of all good wishes frromYour loving son,Rollo.