Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: SerapeumDate: 23 April 1916 Nationality: Australian Text:This time last year we lay at Fremantle, & were receivingrumors of Allied landing at Eros & Seros. I also saw UncleWill that day, & next day the last of Australia. Just a yearago (20th) since I left Adelaide & the 17th was the anniversary ofthe day I left home. Many events & changes have takenplace since then - many friends, - dear friends too, like [[Mann?]]& Holmes, have gone - & I have had some squeaks too.I can tell you this portion of the year will always be verysacred to me - "Anzac Day" will be treated as a "beano"by some folks probably - but I am standing out of thatThis day was the beginning of Australia's glorious, if sad,military history in this war. - I have been through a fairbit during the last year - have seen many sights, pleasing,horrible, awe inspiring, & hellish, but as far as I can saythe effect has only been to broaden my experience, makeme a little more serious & tho I've had a promotion ortwo - I think I am the same old "Armie" as of yore.I suppose the nippers at home are changing. I cansee that G.& H. have grown marvellously according totheir photos, - you didn't send one of Wumps - but youtwo look the same as ever. I hope this & other years tocome will bring no other changes.Hancock is Capt. now (Junior to me) - so we areboth Comp. C.O. - sleep alongside in our valises, & on the20th were awake till 1 am. discussing our old times on the"Hororata." I'll never forget the quiet way that ship leftthe buoy at Largs & was moving 2 hours before we knew it,but of course we were below settling the boys down, & hadno time to notice other things. Wumps was on the wharfthat day - (disobeyed my orders) - but when I return therewill be no orders about not coming down to meet me.I hope we will be back by Xmas, as in no jingospirit - I'm certain that a 'nut cracker' action onthe Huns from all quarters of the Front will break himup completely. You will be reading of this action aboutthe time this gets to you - and I hope we'll be theresomewhere too. We don't want to be in this awful desertany longer- we'd rather fight the Huns but failingthat the Mesopot. fighting would be in our line tooThe L.H. are having some fun - Sometimes I wish Iwas with them - for it is rumored that we intend tomove on towards Jerusalem inland.(Ken Mc has just brought in some Houghton apples -he's gone now - (so have 2 or 3 apples) - the firstfresh fruit I've had for months) -It's about time we made a push & good luck to the 9thL.H. if the rumor is correct - Two of our divisionsare in France now - been there about a month. Wewere much amused to read that they were in Russia.Greece is still at "Yes - No " point - I would dearlylove to see the Navy wade in, & topple down a fewof her towns - it would please Anzacs immensely. Today is Easter Sunday & this day last year me weretogether at Mitcham Camp. I was thinking at ChurchParade today what fine Easter Days we used to haveat Houghton - I can never forget those Easter Mondaypic-nics - the grounds at Htn. were a grand spot forpic-nics. I am wondering of Ken is right in sayingyou'd be at Htn. today & what you are doing - I wonderif you'll be on the platform at the Anniv. on Monday night.Remember the last time you were there Oct 1 1913My thoughts are too much for my pen - I will waitawhile & write again later. A soldiers life does notmake me "stoney-hearted" - at times like this, onebecomes a real "sentimental bloke"I enclose photos of myself taken at Cairo & the snapsI took at the Barrage & Zoo (clinkers too) - as well assome for Harry. My photo is not too good. Darned tiredBest of all good wishes, & hopes you are as well asI am - much love to all from,Rollo.