Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Nationality: Australian Text: The Artillery can either make or mar a "Raid's" successIf the wire isn't smashed - or a thick barrage doesn'tcome between the first forward line of enemy trenches -then the raiding party has a very "rough spin" - & veryfew will get backMost of our raids have been absolutely free from casualtiesuntil the "getting home" began. - as then Fritz begins toput a barrage of machine gun &artillery between his lines &ours, - so the return party shifts like greased lightning.Much pain and detailed work occur in planning a raid -- & a few lines of description of a successful raid - meansthe result of many hours of careful study & planning.To see a party go out one would fancy it was some sortof "fancy dress stunt". The men black their faces, hands &wear any old clobber - carry rifles with blackened bayonetsfixed - knives, revolvers, bombs, & knobkerries - (last areentrenching tools with a bit of horseshoe fixed on for luck)& my word, Ned Kelly would turn with envy in hisgrave if he were only told about our ideas & "get up"You can imagine the effect on poor Hans of thismob of yelling Australian "blacks" jumping into theremnants of their trenches after 30 min. of our "hate".Poor devils - I heard they are going to crucify anyAustralian they catch with a 'Knobkerry" - but they'llhave "first to catch him." I saw some Fritzes ontheir way to our H.Q. after a good raid last night. 26 By the time they reached us they had lost many buttons- (our boys are great in curios - and it was one of thefunniest sights in the world to see a ragged six footerof an Anzac - (black!) escorting an equally giganticFritz. Bill Jim had a "knobkerry" & was helping Fritzalong by wearing his "brass helmet" - but as B.J. waswearing a head of about size 7 - & Fritz helmet onlyfilled a size 6 - you can imagine the picture. Especiallyif you fill up the most picturesque & sanguinaryAustralianese which B J. used with various yelledwar-cries to hurry Fritz along. Some of ourwounded came along later - some laughing, somesilent, others growling & cursing generally. My wordB.J. can swear when put to it properly.I hope to take out a party before long - it mightmean a M.C. or - but one must trust to luck -I don't intend to miss any opportunities, & besides"one hour of glorious fame is worth a month of ordinary war fame"I enclose 'Birthday dinner card" - of party given byMajor Jacob - only 1100 yds from firing line. Keepthe "menu" for the autographs may be valuable.Well - I'll write again in a few days -Best of all good wishes - & very much love - hopingyou're all as well as I amYoursRollo.