Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: near Ypres BelgiumDate: 18 October 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Dear Father & Mother,I rather exhausted my writing powersover my experiences in England & I've done nothing elseexcept scrawl of a letter to Wimps. I will write to theBoltons tonight - as well as to you.I must thank you for the twovery acceptable parcels I recd. the last two mails - thatHorlick's Milk, cheese, paste, nuts, & chocs was grand-while the one from Wimps contained Eucalyptus, 3 lots ofsocks &c, - the socks being especially useful now.We are now in a new country -lowlying - & very wet in winter. We are now in the"cockpit" of Europe - and since Oct 1914 many greatfights have occurred here. Ypres is probably the mostfamous of all our 'fronts' - ding-dong fights have takenplace to gain this little ridge, & to stop the rush onto Ypres. Just now Fritz holds the ridge - but hegot that before we had our present Artillery . Until theSomme push things weren't too good here - but thingshave improved here - and we have the preponderancein artillery now. We are not exactly in the front linebut we supply them, & work near the line. & I have beenup 'getting to know the front' - the last few days. It isfairly peaceful here - & sheer bad luck if a chap gets knocked We are fairly busy here - I'm Returning Officer inconnection with Mil. Service Referendum, & I am sorryto see it as broad as it is. All, except married men orthose who are sole dependents, should be forced to serve,and at a reduced rate of pay. We are all ready for agood long spell - but we know we cannot have one yet -and no one seems to be coming forward to take thestrain - so we have to hang on, & help those who liveon the blood of those who have gone out. God helpAustralia if she votes NO, - I think any man whovotes NO is a pro German, - the lowest of the low, & infact not a man. I tell my lads this is pure Aussy -what I think of anti conscriptionists, & was very emphatic.I've just recd. a letter from Boltons - with a couple ofsnaps Fred made of me. My boys (Loudon & Co ) saythat one is typical of me - my attitude when I "strafe"-but I'm smiling at something Hannah has just said.I've heard from several of my boys - some had heardI'd " gone out" - & glad to hear that 'so & so' had seen mein England. It is fine to hear from the old boys - forI loved those men even when I had to "stir" them up- & it was hard to lose so many - about 1 in 6 fellin those two Somme stunts - & others are maimed forlife - others knocked out for six or eight weeks, - andthis is the sort of thing one feels most - and willaffect me for many, many days. To have a Sergeant & later two other men come upto me during that Dantes Inferno we were in - andask permission to go to the rear to get 'bad' woundsdressed - is discipline - yet some say the Australiansare undisciplined! Thank God, my talks to theboys about 'Duty' have borne fruit - in spite of having- at times to seem harsh - & I am proud of my men.Some of the wounded are back again - but the numberof old Broken Hill boys is getting much smaller - butthose left are going strong. Sgt. Wilson in this go hasbeen in Hosp. three times - but he is here again, & so isLister, whilst Sgt Peebles who was made like a sieveabout the arms & legs is back too - anxious to haveanother go, & to give back a little of what he got.Bise, Whittle, Nuttall, Spinkston & Cheney are all in touchwith me - & I expect the last two here any time.I get no word from Scott - so fancy he must havebeen more badly wounded than I thought. Many of theothers write to me, & I must stop now to write tosome of themNews is extremely scarce - but "no news &c. &c".Best of good wishes., best love, good luck &c fromYour loving, Rollo.Hope you're all as well as I am.