Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Belgium Date: 23 October 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Moving, moving - movingAlways bally movingFrom one week's end until the nextWe're moving all the time2nd Scrapping, scrapping, scrapping &c3rd Shelling4th Charging5 Digging6 Marching7 Moving & then ad lib to nth powerDear Father & Mother,-The above hymn describes our generalmovements - but the another verse or two is needed to describe theweather & climate. Drizzling - drizzling, &c.- so you canguess Belgium is not unlike the S.E. in winter. Mud &slush everywhere - cold all day & night- whilst the rain ispractically ceaseless. However we manage to live, & will continueto carry on O.K. The men are all supplied with waders whilstin the front areas, - plenty of dubbing for boots , whale oil inquantities to grease the feet & keep out the wet, & thick clothesalong with thick gloves & leather over-gloves - so we get on O.K.An extra blanket is also issued to each man, so we're beingwell looked after. Rations most excellent & plentiful, so weget on fine. We put in a fortnight in the front line - only4 light casualties in the whole Bn (none in C. Co) - nowwe are on our way to a very wet & hot corner in a [[?nigh]]county, & the Circus is on the move again I am writing this in a weatherboard hut built by the Kanukand it is not water-tight by any means. I have to sit on myvalise in the driest corner - & dodge the drippings from the ceilingWe are only here for a few days, & probably will have far betterquarters in a short timeThis Contonment is the filthiest I've yet seen, and strangeto say we relieved the 50th - or Dirty Half Hundredth. Theydo not belie their name, in fact our C O. told their C.O. afew straight facts about what they could learn from usStrange to say when we first started - our chief anxietywas - how do we - or how will our boys compare with theEnglish regular. Now we wonder what their strong pointsare - Anyhow I sincerely hope we never take over anyother positions vacated by them, & that we only have Aussieson our flanks in a stunt. Of course some regts are A.1.Our Referendum Vote has just finished & strange to sayI believe a fair number voted NO. - but I don't think we'dmany in our Battn I was R.O. for our Company.If Australia Votes NO I don't intend to be an Australian- for it won't be worth calling a Nation then. I trustthe vote will be YES - for God knows, & so do all the officersthat we need Refts. very badly - the whole A.I.F isbeing starved for want of new blood. If Billy Hugheshad any guts he should have said 'Conscription' straightout. - He's a funk for he knows our position & he's farworse then Yes No Reid - may be a splendid theoristshe's a d - d bad practical statesman. Billy tells us "to go in turn"- but he acts differently in Australia- his ideas may be splendid - but he won't put them into practice.This war is going to last some time yet - and it is great pitywe could not settle this business before winter came - for nowthe Hunnish Hydra will grow more heads by next Spring.That stunt of Falkenstein's in Romania means that theHuns hold the trump card now on all fronts - and it wasa pity Romania came in - for she is isolated from Britain,has mostly Hun guns - (except a few French heavies ) & noKrupp ammunition - so they'll be mere cannon fodder.I hope the Russians will be able to stop the rot that hasset in in S.E & Central Romania.I dare say the Huns will have some Anti-tanks & otherantidotes to our Push tactics before the Spring returns.Ken Mc was telling me about George's death. Poorold George - I was sorry to read about him. Ken wishes tobe remembered to you all. - Next time we're out for a RestI must try & get him out of the Orderly Room - to deal withthe men on parade &c - I think he'd make a fine officer.- but at present he's out of touch with outside mil. workhis branch is adminis. & promotion is very slow there.Merv. M came an inglorious end in Egypt - hisuncle was present when something was said to me onceabout "frills &c of an officer" - well the nephew hasput a full stop to any chance of his military career.Les Johns is still O.K. & Sid Lehman is away sick. (Tonsilitis)but will be back soon. Milt. Stanway has recovered - but Coghill was short ofmen - that men who belonged to various other Bgds. havebeen hustled from the bases to reinforce him - & Stanway hasgone to him. This shows the need for Conscriptn. fornothing spoils men more than to take them from a'fighting unit' (of which they are intensely proud) - totransfer them to one with a poor name This willspoil the A.I.F. in time - for we'll become like someof the Pommy Regts - having a great name, but lackingthe pride & spirit to act up to that name.A 10th man considers it a disgrace to be sent to the27th or 32nd - (the "dinkums" - & "hyper super dinks") or the43rd "if nots why nots" - (Census cards). Of course the 50this a twin of the 10th - so we rank as equals - butjust imagine a 50th or 10th in the 43rd or 32nd.Our men want a real relief - at present they aregetting worn out & stale.No more news now - hope you are all as wellas I am - & best of love & all good wishes to you all fromRollo.That Wattle-blossom was a spendid reminder ofsunny Australia - & is now suspended fromthe ceiling of my "Happy Home."