Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 25 May 1915 Location: Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: My marching orders have come a bit sooner thanexpected, for I notified that tomorrow at 5 a.m. Iam to start out. I am returning with 115 wounded tothe front, some beauties among them so I amanticipating a rough time. There is one comfort asIreland is going up with 65 - remainder of his reinforcementsThis place (Cairo) is absolutely rotten - Bean's statementsare correct in every detail.Frank White has been returned from the Dardanelles -to Heliopolis Hosp, suffering from Rheum. fever.Stan & I heard by chance that he was there, & madetime to see him. He was looking pretty miserablewhen we went him - but left him more cheerful.I feel losing touch with my men almost as muchas the loss of Gordon Munro. I have put in many ofmy best hours with them - & heard General Spens-(G.O.C. Egypt) state at his inspection that the 5/10 werea very satisfactory & efficient body - so you canimagine what a pill it was to take away absolutestrangers. My old men feel it too, & got up a petitionto get away with me - but this is so unmilitary thatI stopped it. So after wearing my heart out - Feb 10to May 25 - I have to leave my men. They are avery fine lot, & I am awfully disappointed at leavingthem - it cuts into me very deep indeed.I am afraid I am unlikely to do my duty to you as ason, for I must confess our chances of coming backfrom the front are very small. I have done my best to better myself, and so do my share to help youalong. You have schooled me, and until I was 20years old I was relying on your help - & it is only sinceI have been in the military that I have been ableto fix myself up. It is rather hard to think thatjust when I should be doing my best for thehome our Empire gets thrown into the throes of thisterrible war. I foresaw everything when I volunteered& I feel more keen than ever to get away to the front- I have Gordon to avenge - & my keenness has onlybeen slightly blunted by leaving my men - butIreland's company to a certain extent counteracts that.I did not get much time to see Cairo - the Citadeland the mosques were all I visited.If anything happens my trunk is at Thos. Cook & SonCairo - & they will forward when you write. Itcontains bank-book - & about 22 in a tin box - myclothes, books &c.I will write again as soon as I get a chance, hopingit will be my luck to get back. Good fortune, goodhealth, happiness & prosperity I wish you all.Let Bema - George & Harry read this letter.Box is addressedLieut- H.E.S. Armitage5th Rein. 10th Infantry3rd BrigadeA. I. ForceAddress letters10th Battn.3rd Brigade1st Aust. Division. Rollo. [*Base Details Helmich May 25th 1915.*]