Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Mouquet Farm Date: 2 September 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: and then we got particular blazes. The Huns almostlevelled our trench and I was very glad when help wascalled for from the Quarry & my Company had to help out.Crossing No Mans Land from E. to Quarry in daylight underconcentrated machine gun fire was no joke - but it was betterthan waiting in E.F. for sudden & sure death.I can tell you I nearly gave up hope of ever leavingPark Lane E.F. and I was thankful when we had to hopout in the open to help at the Quarry. Later on aftermany good men had been killed (or buried in E.F. thetroops - or those who were left were withdrawn to the main trench.Park Lane was 500 yds long - and a minimum depth of 7at 7 a.m. was by that time (noon absolutely blown in alongits whole length - except for a very few yards.We were continually being buried in dirt thrown up by theJack Johnsons - & the crash and crump of them as theyburst - well to have one of these every 10 seconds - absolutelydazed some of the boys. The earth literally shook - and Iwas more afraid of the trench (9 deep) collapsing andburying us alive than of the shells - but the roar!!!it was awful!!! One of my Sgts (Nuttall) had his eardrumssplit - he hung on for 2 days without seeing the M.O. buthe had to come in & has been sent to Hospital: The M.O.has personally spoken to the Brigadier concerning Nuttallswork - it was splendid - and I am hoping to see Nuttallget some decoration. 8 of my boys were mentioned for the 72 Just a line to let you know I'm in England -at the above address - arrived here night of 18th.The vastness of London is impressive - but the buildings,will, with the exception of the historic ones like theAbbey & St Paul's - they're nothing to get excited about.I've already visited most of the places of interest hereand intend going to Liverpool on the morning of 23rd.On the 19th I spent much cash on clothes - myEgyptian stuff was too thin & light for murky,misty, foggy London - and as I wanted a completerig out it was a very opportune time for getting one.On same day had the good fortune to meet MajorGiles - (shell shock & slight wound) Fowler & Hancock,just convalescent from wounds, Blackburn V.C.just from Hospital - McCann M.C., - & Capt. Huscombe[[?]], Clark, Gordon Cornish, with myself on leave -so we had a splendid time.You can imagine the pleasures of that impromptumeeting - there were 4 groups of us - all arrivedat the Trocadero within 10 minutes of each other,& you can guess such an unexpected reunion wasa splendid & exciting event.Yesterday I visited the Abbey - but was disappointed- a service was on so I stayed through it & then N. FranceGood news - but a surprise, but I'm off to England for 8days on the 18th. That will give 3 days London 3 in Lpool,& I hope 2 in Edinburgh - Time is short - so I'll have to moveI am tremendously excited at present and have written toBoltons telling them. My word I'll be glad to get away.My last letter told you we had left the Somme front -& we are now on the Belgian front ready to go into theYpres salient. Some of our boys are in there already& when my leave is over it'll be our turn.The Co. is in A.1. condition - & everything looks lovely just nowI've just had your mail July 14th Wumps complainstoo that she hasn't heard - but I daresay about the timeyou mean we were getting in from Sinai, & embarking forFrance - otherwise I wrote regularly - often twice a week.I got those "Australia Day" photos but no mail - soI hope it comes before tomorrow night - as I expect tobe away by midnightDon't take any notice of silly rumors - I've beenknocked out 3 or 4 times according to outside accts.but it's all gas. McAnna & others stopped writingbecause they'd heard I'd got it at Moquet Farm - butif anything goes wrong the Def. Dept. will let youknow quickly enough. Its been my misfortune notto get any honors out of my two stunts - but Iwon't blow my trumpet & ask for decorations likesome folks have done. 73 and several will get M.M. too for that lot.Well when we got to the Quarry I had to send a bombteam there - half a dozen men somewhere else - and thenthe others were told to sit down & wait until they wereneeded. However we were not needed - the line held tight.Under cover of night the Canadians relieved us, andthe whole Brigade was pulled out. All the A.I.F. hasleft the Somme area and are re-fitting here.The 13th Brigade (Ours) lost very heavily - daylight stuntsalways end that way. and we gained great Kudos for ourwork. In my opinion this stunt was nothing comparedwith the work we did on Aug 12-14.However folks now realise what a stiff job was givento the 50th that time - the whole Brigade found it avery stiff proposition on Sept 2 - 3 - and from the bottomof my heart I am glad we met such opposition, itshowed that our Battn had done marvellous work onAug 12 - 14.Well - a queer reaction sets in after such fierce work, andI find it hard to concentrate on anything - Ive found thisletter extremely difficult to write. I believe "Leave" starts soon.I am looking forward to it very much. for I am gettingvery "stale." Physically I am O.K. - but a short relief fromthe constant strain of C. O. would do me good. Leave is due.No more news - so close with best wishes & much love.Rollo.