Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 17 August 1916 Location: Pozieries Nationality: Australian Text: Since last writing to you I have been to HELL andhave had the luck to get back again. I am not in amood for writing so will stop & finish later onWell anyhow weve had our first Big Action as the50th Battn. - and we got rather singed, though we weresuccessful in getting the objective.We left . . . . . on 12th. Aug. in morning in fightingorder for certain support trenches. Little did we thinkthat a few hours' time would see us 'over the top'& well into a Hun's trench still we got over & someof us have come back.When we arrived at the support trenches we gotorders to go up to some trenches N. W. of Pozieries & at10.20 p.m. we had to hop out & at themWe set out for the jumping off place, & got alongvery well until within mile of the front & then wegot iron foundries, Essen, Krupp, & the Hartz Mts.thrown at us. The Huns knew the exact locationof the communication trench (one of theirs), and lobbedinto a length of about 400 yds. a shell every 10 ydsevery 5 seconds. That is what the 50th got throughbefore starting work. The trench was absolutelysmashed, & we lost a fair number of men.Thenour next trouble was to keep alive in the front FranceOmitted Letter 25.8.16 read back to 60My last letter gave you a short account of ourfirst stunt - and the two biggest goes Ive yethad - but my description was very incompleteas I was done up at the time.Now my mind is numbed to the horrors of thatawful time - I can recall pretty well every minuteand every act - I could tell all about it, butmy thoughts flow too quickly for writingI have not ceased wondering how I came outalive - I believe a bullet grazed my right earit was scratched a wee bit - I believe shells burstso close that the concussion bowled me over - &I remember a shell bursting right above me asI was lying in the open, & the heat was so greatthat I rubbed my trouser legs to see if they wereburning. - I had some marvellous escapes.I recommended two of my officers - Rule andBeresford - and some of my men Nuttall, Kerr,Walsh & Hanley for honours, & expected to be amongthose recommended too. Im a bit disappointedfor somehow I have been passed over, - but Imnot going to H.Q. to blare out what I did -like some folks did: I expected a M.C at leastif my dues were paid in comparison with somepeople. However well have another stunt in afew days, & Ill go for converting my honor to V.C. Once again in the vortex of an inferno as hot ashell - whether we go in or not is uncertain - Forwe may be the Reserve Battn. on a/c of doing allthe work on the last stunt & then we will only be INfor a few hours as we are being shifted at the endof the week to carry on peaceful trench warfare inother parts. Sincerely I hope we have another "go" here,for those who are left of my boys are right up tofighting pitch and it would be a pity to leavehere with our job uncompleted and our desire toavenge lost comrades unsatisfied. However whateverhappens we will fight hard. & get "some" too.Birdwood visited us yesterday & presented ribbons(of medals later) to certain men. Only 3 of our Battngot them !!! one belonged to me (Kerr).Well can't write much up to my eyes in work &prep. Very busy. The weather is vile somethingawful as regards rain & mud never seen anythinglike it. Recd a. June mail yesterday, up to July 9 & 11.I enclose two photos (by young Lynch) One isa photo of those designs I spoke about at surdoss This is No. 9 Platoon (mine) showing Pappet Heads c. Br. HillThe other is a group of Sgts . of 10th taken just beforethe big split when the 52nd. most splendid lot of N.C.O ever existed was formed. Keep this.No more news.. Love & best wishes in every way from.Rollo. line trench - (our jump off place) - and for 4 hoursthe Huns simply poured shells on to us. Amidst allthis we had to make our dispositions for the attack & then we were able to lie 'doggo' - for 30 mins. beforedoing our little dash.At last 9. 35 came We got out over the top, "linedup" about 40 yds. out by 9. 40. Then IT began.IT was our Artillery preparation. Talk about awall of bursting flame. We had to take about 800 yds .of Hun trench - & that 800 yds. had 3 mins. ofawful bombardment, a sheet of flame the wholelength representing the bursting shells. The dustfrom the explosions, & the intense glare, cast anorange glow over the proceedings.While this was going on we sneaked up to about50 yds. of the objective. It was a weird sight our boys steadily advancing against a backgroundof solid golden flame & the noise!! It was terrific!!The Artillery then lifted back 50yds. & then camethe supreme moment of the lot. Right-o C !"& with a sounding of whistles we jumped up andcharged like blue hell across those few yards.My word, the boys travelled !! in cheering, bayonetscarried at "high post point" - & we reached the trenches or what was left of them. We found only about 42live men - the rest were knocked out.Beresford 62 soon bombed these with the "Kamerad" attitude but.we only took five unwounded prisoners:Then work "started"! We had to dig in almosta fresh line of trench & my word the boys diddig & we had a very decent line before dawn.All that day (13th) we got blue blazes shelledfrom dawn until late dusk . but our "diggers"had been so good that we had few casualties.Fritz made two or three tries to form up for acounter-attack but we'd get in early, and bybeing alert kept him from concentrating on us.On the 14th. he gave us seven hours of perfect"inferno." What a time we had. Few of us thoughtwe'd get through that day, but we stuck it O.K.That night we were sent out on a verydifficult stunt. By this time we'd lost about2/3 of our men, & we'd had no sleep since late on11th & the men were dead tired with three nightsof hard, heavy digging. We now had to go outto the left, & advance to dig in "on the Sky-line."We got out O. K. & formed into position on theobjective but Fritz spotted us, & made our livesprecarious with machine guns & shells. Herbertwas temporarily smashed up Beresford was blownout by a shell (shell shock) Dirden, Rhodes, & Fowlerwounded, D G. was forced back, leaving the remnant. First go at the Huns.Pozieries .17.8.1916. 64