Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: At Sea Near GallipoliDate: 27 May 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Harry's birthday brought me good luck for I shiftedfrom the worst hole on God's Earth after 4 days stay,I have a pretty tough job as the men consider themselvesthe head, & as I am the 'nipper' of the crowd of officersI am somewhat at a disadvantage. They are a mixdcrowd - but I will soon hand them over, & anyhow Ihave tamed them considerably. I will get one of theships officers to post this - I'm afraid my future corresp.will be confined to printed cards.I could let you have lots of news - but as my lettermight get into wrong hands it would be useless towrite much. - I am hopeful of pulling through, andwill then tell you fully. Anyhow history will tellwhat a fine fight our boys are putting up, & ifwe do go down you can rely that we've all doneour best for King & Country.Give my love to all the relatives & Houghton folkI can't write to them - but they are not forgotten.I had no time to get curios, &c. in Cairo - toobusy fixing up my men, but there are badges, mystars, &c, in that tray in my trunk - also a little ivoryElephant I picked up at Colombo. Harry will like it.I was disappointed at being moved on withoutreceiving any home mail - but I will get it sometime.Things are only middling with us. I mustnot state what is in or on the water - but tomorrowwe land, & I hope in a day or two to meet yourold school-mate - Col. Weir. - Giles is much alive.It may be some time before I write again- Idon't know how to close this letter for I feel. At the sea near Lemnos. Just a wee bit 'funny' while writing this. Butat all times I have endeavoured to do my duty toyou, & struggled hard to be a credit to you.Thank God that I have parents who broughtme up in such a way that I have a bit of backboneI have always tried to live up to your advice, Dad."Never do what you'd be ashamed for Mum & Bema toknow" - & altho' I'm not perfect - I have nothingto hide from anyone.I intended to send you a list of my men sothat you could look them up after the war -but time has been against meI can't write what I feel - it is a bit hard todo so when the guns are firing only a few milesaway. - so I'll close now - wishing you all thebest of good luck. -Rollo On trawlerAm getting to front 1 day ahead of StanHave to be my own censor.Instruct anyone writing to address 10th B3rd Brig. Let Boltons know.