Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 28 March 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Nothing much, Hancock has to get to Cario tonight so Im getting him to send a cable along. My captainy dates from 1.3. 6 and I am a liddy to be a company C.O but I hape prvidence will guide me anght in my get if only for my men's sakes. I have a pretty fair company but Ive had to do a lot of straping to work it up to effrai Ju Smith an old S.M. & I school mate is if in command to me while noe Contit (same school) is our Adntant an a good man he is too my ideal commander as now Moger werket he is a fir chap like a by brother to me, with his advice and helping hand. If I copy Herbest I won't for wrong. and he is unowalled for military capanty ther wt to me is Havoy Thomson (Raodes Scholar) an Exq ten fellow, & one that Balliol must very proud of producingOur Battn (50th) is a very fine one. Officers are atip-top lot with Hurcombe & Jacob at the head -well we have a splended Esprit de corps already.Six of us are old 79th - Smith, Gore, English, Auld,Clark & myself) - and the 79th record is excellent - onlyone of the old officer is not on war service - only 3are still in S. A., & about 80% of the boys are here. We'velost Green & Holmes - but their names will never go -they lived & died like men.By the time I get your reply to this, I expect wewill be at work again. I can tell you it causes queerfeelings to glance at one's company, & realises that it isa mere "war machine" and as yet untried. Onesees weak part - rectifies & strengthens them, but of coursewe cant pick out all the defects that 'war' will developThe responsiblity of a C.O. is great for it depends onthe training, especially the full amount of energy ata pinch - which will prove my work. I know the menare O.K. individually but I wonder if my training willteach them collectively to do their darndest at the right job,& at the right time. I won't know this till we face the musicagain - & I pray God that my methods will cause my machineto do its job efficiently. If I do this I will be well satisfiedin having done my little share in helping to crush the Huns.If I fail it will not be through want of trying anyhow. We leave here on the 31st to get the other side of theCanal - to complete training [[?]] get thoroughly fit - thoas we have been wandering round the desert for severaldays, route marching with full packs up, we arealready in tip top conditionIn a short time I will be supplied with a horse.C.O. are mounted now-a-days - and I hope I geta good nanto - as a C.O. hasn't time to spare to docircus tricks or try colt breakingI enclose a snap of the Prince of Wales. The officerwaving the crowd back is our warrior G.O.C. GeneralCox - & just by the P.W. to rear is. Gen. BirdwoodI'm sorry the details of this snap are not clearer - butI prize it very much. Major Herbert developed andprinted it for me.I've recd. five long letters (Feb 20th) & it is 'great' to gethome news, - you can't realise how eargerly I lookforward for the letters. I'm afraid I'm getting a poorcorrespondent - but my job occupies all my time.Wumps & George, will have to excuse my non-writingI shall try to send a few lines before the 31stI wrote to Dr Schulz & Wiill Kimber - but I'd owedthem letters for a long time.Remember me to any who enquire. Glad thatParcel No 1 got you O.K. - hope No 2 comes to hand tooGood wishes & much love fr Rollo