Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury. Location: FranceDate: 27 December 1916 Nationality: Australian Text:For the 3rd time in succession Xmas has come & gone &found me in khaki & away from home, and it is impossible tosay if we shall be home next Xmas or not - there is still somuch to be done. Germs. are still far from being defeated,and the spirit of the prisoners we get is by no means asbroken as H.Q. would have the nation believe.Great things will happen not only in the Spring - butbefore this winter is over - God help the poor unfortunate troopssent over the top in this wet & muddy place.The cold plays hell with us - it is only our stickabilityin the lines, that keeps us going - we do not relish it at all.The whole period in the front line areas is one of greatdiscomfort, much hardship, & illhealth. Our boys are onlyjust getting fit again to go up in front again afternearly a month's spell.Xmas was spent comparatively quietly - a jolly good feastwas provided for the troops - mainly thro' funds of League ofLoyal Women, - & football &c. in the afternoon. We willhold sports on New Year's Day - the companies are hardat work training their different teamsI miss my old officers very much - during ourrest we have recd reinforcements & much re organisationhas been done. Beresford has gone to Training Brigade,Loudon to H.Q. Staff - Rule transfd. to B.Co. - & Ive beengiven a drunken subaltern (-McLean) his last chance. & three rftmts. officers - Sheard - Lucas & Packard.They all seem so different to the old lot - always somethingwrong with them - & by no means as keen or initiative as onewould wish. Its not a nice feeling to be uncertain of them -but I havent much confidence in them.Ive had to do a lot of work that with the old lot never fellon my shoulders - & Ill be glad when Baynes (away at a school)comes back as Lieut - as he will be a great help.If everything is not as nice as it might be - thank God Ivegot good N.C.Os - most of them were in the old 10th (& C too) atGallipoli with me. C. Co. is a splendid one - but not up to theone I led on Aug 12th - when we went into action.If we go over the top - theyll all go - & go hard too - forwe have a lot to make up for our fallen mates -Your I.W.W crowd want a few Hun methods applied tothem to let them know what Kultur isMy second leave falls due on the 29th - but I will putit off till George arrives - & as soon as I know that datewill make preparations accordingly. I would rather have itin the Spring - as I dont think winter in England wouldbe very pleasant.We are close to Amiens now - but I havent gone into thetown - where a decent meal, clothing &c costs 100% more toan Australian than others. I sent my watch in per a bro.officer - for a seconds hand & new glass. Charge 10fr. whenthe whole watch was only worth 45fr - so you see Frenchcan beat Scotch or Jews hollow. 27.12.16Your Xmas parcel has not yet come - tho I got yourcable O.K. Mrs Trudgen sent along a very nice cake - whichwas a great asset to our mess cupboard.I owe tons of letters all round - but letter writing isbecoming a real task - it takes tremendous effort to get going - but I must write to Uncle Will as well this mail.In case I should miss George - in your next letterlet me know what ship he is on. From what Iknow he would gain much navigating experience if outon patrol & exam duty in Atlantic or Medit - but hewill get plenty of work if he's on a destroyer in the North Sea. With the Grand Fleet - I believe it's a rathera monotonous time as the Canal Fleet doesn't seeminclined to again venture out into the N. Sea.I rather hope he goes to the Medit. - for with tin fishhunting in the Aegean - perhaps bombarding Athens, &visiting historic & interesting places - he ought to have agood time - & put up some service ribbons soon.No more news now - so I'll close with very much love& best of good wishes to all especially yourselves.Your loving sonRolloI hope you're all as well as I am.