Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Cove Egypt Date: 23 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: (Letter to Harry - dealing with fearsome picsof what Jocko should get. Descr. of fakeattack on Turks Guy Fawkes night. - Coloredlights at end of trenches - all rifles fired onceJocko went mad - fired furiously for nearlyan hour while Aussie sat tight & laughed) I'm still O.C. of A. Co. I have lots of work. PoorRumball will probably be fixed for life with lumbago& rheum as he kept on too long. I reckon anyonewho has the luck to come through this stunt O.Kwill bear the effects for life in rheumaticky shoulders& short temper - and a chap gets no extra thanksfor staying on when he ought to be in Hosp.Shaw has given me this job over the heads oftwo or three of my seniors - who are probably hurtabout it - but anyhow I've done more work thanthey have by going out with wiring parties to,whilst they directed operations from the trenches.I don't like the job as I am such a nipperstill - the responsibility is pretty big - and italso has taken me away from the men whoknew me thoroughly. Anyhow no officer isbeing appointed to my old No 9 Platoon - so Iwill be able to go back to them.Two parcels came lately both from AustraliaBerna's from you contained socks, hankies, etc . Don'tsend too much clothing etc. at one time as ouraccom is very limited. The things were very welcomeespecially the camphor - which is the best antidoteto Vermin I've yet met. The 'chats' don't worryme much - & at present the camphor seems to haveworked them out of a job with me. The otherparcel was from Millicent & camphor pills etc. will come in tip top - the Eucal. oil especially. Therewas a grease splodge over the pad where someone'scake had been squashed on the parcel. - The parcelcame to me as a cakey brown mass of cardboard & stringbut inside everything was alrightChristophers is here now with the rest after thenext reinf. for Munros old battn. I have onlyseen him two or three times - He seems a bittimid but then of course this is all new - as sofar he has not seen a Turk - thus not been ina scrap yet - The first scrap will wear this offalthough he says he's already "full up of Anzac"Had a big job yesterday. Had a plan out -traverse, & contour a certain areas as thewinter quarters for a large body of men.Had to plan out 1. Where the men could beplaced in certain stipulated formation2. Type of most economical timbering for shelter3. Safest kind of Shelter 4. Best weatherproof ideaI daresay my plan will be first 'cut toblazes by Bat H.Q . - then annihilated by theBrigade H.Q. - chewed up by Divisional BrassHats - & then probably a whole lot of uselessmaterial will be sent to me to erect someflimsy structures according to some pommies'plan - whose ideas may be altogether wrong. Anyhow I hope I'm not here in Com. of A Cowhen the building operations are on. The jobreally requires a complete Military educationbut I've got through the work somehow & sent itin - & am now awaiting results - much the sameas we'd await results of Varsity Exams.Some day I must write a full account of theoperations here - so that you may see themany huge blunders that have been made hereStill we keep cheerful & gaily joke & whistle - sothat when we do get relief we wont be undulyexcited by the fact we are leaving this portion ofEurope. This show was taken up altogether toofaint heartedly. It was to have been a naval oper.supported the an army - Now it is a MILITARYOPERATION rendered necessary by blunders ofthe Admiralty - & very weakly supported too.The person concerned in this colossal blunder shouldget DEATH as his reward at end of war.I hope to be able to give full details of a fewcrimes 1. Lone Pine Action 2. 971 Hill Action 9.8.15& one or two others that were worse than blundersbut just now I must keep mum. Anyhow ifwe'd had decent support & good tactics we'd havebeen through this job long ago. Good wishes to.Seen Edwards & Pranerham a few times. Rollo.