Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Cove Egypt Date: 6 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:More developments brewing but still continueto address Egypt - Major Parsons & his squadronhave arrived. I walked 5 miles to see them - & aftera great hunt found Capt. Sukman, Ragless wasaway on outpost about 1 miles further so didn'tsee him. The gullies there reminded me of thosebetween the Oval (Houghton) & T.T. Gully - steepnarrow, & thick scrub. The boys were glad to seeme as they'd heard I'd gone out long ago.They asked all sorts of questions about the Turks& opened their eyes when I spoke about the fewyds between our trenches & Jacko. On this flankJacko is about 2 miles aways - in front of us only5 to 50 yds! so we're a bit different.Nothing much doing lately - A couple of Turkscrept over this week & gave themselves up - the firstprisoners I believe from the 10th to reach Div H.QShearer brought in a wounded Turk some days ago -but he died & the 10th have 'accepted' so few surrendersthat these deserters caused quite a sensation. Theygave away a lot of 'news' to H.Q. & spoke freely - butthey were a low type of fellows - and I'd reckontheir evidence very 'suspicious'. Anyhow the 10th putno trust in them - & will report deserters after theyhave dealt with them - as bombs are nasty close up. We are out every night laying barbed wire - thats theworst job to do tonight. Weve lost no one yet at thisgame yet - and anyhow after tonight I dont want anymore 'wire' for it tickles ones hands too much &4 nights running is quite enough.I have a Turkish incend bomb in my pozzy thatdid not function It's about 15" long 7 diam & containsa liquid- turpentiney stuff - yellow powder a dampclaggy stuff not brittle like sulphur. The mouth isblocked with a wooden plug - which is supposed tofall out on impact - & mix the powder & liquid &then comes the stink - signatureThe Turks are reported to have gas - So have we- & the helmets to - but so far weve not used it oneither side. Mail just in so will stop a while. Rollo.