Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 4 November 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: Just had yours of Sept 19 & 20 - & am verysurprised you had no news of Suvla Bay.The English papers were very full of it - &gave fine accounts of the business - butfailed to explain the cause of the 'hold up'or to mention what troops were responsible.I am not sure but I believe something bigis on hand here - but it will be the toughestjob we've tackled this end - In front of us arerows & rows of trenches. stronger than Vandeleurhas seen in Flanders. V is a Br. general, & cameto us the other day, told us our lines were the best he'd seen, & he's been all along the AlliedFront too in France & Belgium. These trencheswere commenced right back in June whenI had charge of the covering party - so I feela bit proud of being connected with them.We go on running & sniping - blowing upTurks &c - & all hands go in for 'Stunts' ofsome kind or other - new bomb throwers,periscopic telegraphic sighted rifles, &c -but on ahead we see rows of trenches nowright back to Gun Hill - where we wouldhave gone if K of Ks Pommies had onlyheld on to Hill 971 when it was left tothem. We are encouraging the men tomake 'cave dug-outs' & soon will be regulartroglodites - but we must have somewhereto go for shelter against snow & new shells.Shelling isn't always useful. If our shellsdo no more damage than Jacko's we arewasting ammunition. - Take 'Loos' forexample - 14 days shelling - & about 20 shellsto every sq. yard - & every inch searched - yetwhen the Br advanced the Huns manned thetrenches, & inflicted great damage. Trenches can only be taken by flank attacks or surprise. Surprise attacks rarely eventuate, & the resultsvery doubtful - for as we found at Quinn'strenches we took at night were untenablein daytime because of enfilade fire.Of course there are exceptions - like Leane'strench in Tasmania Post - taken Aug 1stand held in spite of heavy losses by 11thWe only hope we'll have a 'dinkum go'before winter sets in - as we came to 'win'.We have various types of catapults forslinging bombs - & a huge store of the latterso we make much use of them to harass JackoJacko has a big supply too - but I think wemore than hold our own.A Turk was evidently wounded the othernight - & let out some heart rending yelps -but our chaps roared & laughed at the poordevil. Another time a Hun officer evidentlylost his temper - & at midnight aroused us allby yelling at & belabouring some unhappy Jackowho howled & yowled plentifully. All was veryquiet on our side - but one of our sentries sangout - " Shut up that blinketty blank row - youblanketty blinking German cow or I'll give youa Clift under the blooming - ear" That brokeus up - & we chivvied that Bosch for the next halfhour - and I guess if he knew Aust. he felt mad.Rollo