Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Rouge Croix North FranceDate: 16 June 1916 Nationality: Australian Text:Dear Father & Mother,-My last letter finished off I think where wewere in the S. Adriatic. We continued our zig zag course rightinto Malta and back to the N. end of Sicily. I hoped we wouldgo through Str. of Messina especially if night - time to see oddStromboli or Etna which show up fine. The coasts of allthe Medit. islands are rough & barren-looking - Malta especially,but Sicily showed more vegetation. Sardinia was passedat night, & we arrived off Toulon a rough rugged sortof place late that afternoon but we made & berthed atMarseilles during that night.Mar. looked an excellent natural harbor - & with breakwaters& engineering skill has been made an ideal port.Next morning we 'debarked' and marched 2 milesto camp. You can't imagine how strange it wasto be back in civilization again, to see respectablepeople, civilized houses, walk along real roadswith grass & trees it was all so marvellous wewere in a regular whirl for a while.We had a perfect little camp near the shoreon the side of a hill under fine shady trees, amost beautiful spot. The boys were given leaveand only 4 were A.W.L next morning not so bad,as the boys had just had a full pay, had aterrific thirst, & in other ways Mars. is a bad as Cairo It was a pity one got so physically tired on sucha trip for really this was a beautiful excursionfor a full minded man. We get some finecherries and hope to get more later, - the firstI'd had for years it seemed. We would halt 3 timesa day - (one hour each stop) while the men werefed & provided with hot water for their tea, sowe did fairly well.We detrained at a place near Hazelbrouk at midnt.and then marched 4 miles to this village, wherewe are billeted. We are about of dist betweenHazel. & Ypres, Armentieres is about 8 miles off,and all day long we can 'hear them at it' - soprobably before long we will be in it too.Our old 10th Battn is in the trenches just westof A. so we have been able to get a little newsfrom them. They have had a pretty rough time,but as they have given Fritz a harder time -things are not so bad with them.We are close to the Belg. border, and mostof the people in this village are Flemish. Theyhave some interesting tales to tell of the eightday in Oct. 1914 when the Huns over-ran thispart. Living results exist of their visit, & nowwe realise what 'war' means in one's country& the boys will fight like hell when their turn comes It is sad to see so many women in black. The onein our billet, has two youngsters (her brother's children)to look after, as he was killed early in the war.The only males about are children, youths up to 17,& old men, some of the latter without an arm or aleg - old veterans of 1870.We are able to view the ravages of war, with anunbiassed mind at present - and war is a mostdevilish & hellish thing"Sailly" Tuesday 20.6.16.I wasn't able to finish this note last Friday & thenext day we recd. orders to move on here - about 9 13miles from Rouge X - a nice day's march.We are now reserves to the firing line & that is the 10thAlready I have seen many of the old boys, & youcan't imagine what reunions we have & will hold duringthe days in this district. At the end of the weekwe move up to the support lines - (billets still) - butright among shells & gas. The latter is a realfactor here - 3 gas alarms last week & severalcasualties too - on one occasion travelled over 10 milesArtillery & aerial torpedoes kick up hell's delight, & atnight machine guns bark till artillery shut them up.The country is low lying, trenches impossible, so onlyBreastworks possible. I've seen Coffey & Minagall, & amintending to visit the front to see Weir, Giles &c. in a day or two.Well - I'm dog-tired so will close with best of all good wishes,much love, & hopes you are as well as, Rollo.