Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Date: 11 June 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Have to resort to all sorts of oddments for this letteras all kit &c has been stacked pending what we hopewill be a general advance.During the past week many changes have occurredin this part - trenches being taken on our right & left,while big things are to be done on our left. If thingsgo right. we should have the dominating hand hereby the end of this week. I will tell you morein my next letter. You can draw some conclusionfrom the fact that some of Paul's men have beenamong some wounded dressed at this beach. I haveheard that P. is down with pneumonia,I wrote a letter which I didn't send - too dangerous -& just now even the heads are getting 'wigged' forsending indiscreet letters which have been published.Don't take any notice of rumors. I've heard all sortsof yarns were current in Cairo &c about me being'outed' - 'lost a leg', or 'down with typhoid' - &Murray Fowler had a blue fit when he saw meon joining - as he'd heard in Egypt that I'd gone W.Never take notice of anything unless it's Official.I've met many old pals & made many new ones.Shaw of 'pint of water' fame - Gordon Cornish is Capt.,& I've met Todd & Frayne - (Munro's pals). Frayne wassniped & went W. the other day. Our Brgdr. Gen. Sinclair[*Maclagan*] Maclagan is a fine old chap & knows me well. Very few of the officers who left with the 10th are herenow - only Weir, Lorenzo, Shaw, Giles, Stopp, Perry,Hocking, & Hamilton are with us - so you can see thattrench life plays up with us all. We expect our nextreinforcements daily. Things are worked differently now -4 officers to every 236 men - (not only 2 as in the caseof Hancock & myself) - S. Aust. officers have done workthat was not done anywhere else & folks are only justbeginning to realise it.I didn't give you much description of our trip fromAlexandria to Lemnos - it's too great for a writtenaccount - I hope to be able to tell you about it byXmas time.However we left Cairo early - breaking camp 4 a.m.Travelled all day through deserts or oases arriving atAlex. at 1.30 p.m. ending the most miserable trainjourney I've ever done. We stepped off the train on the wharfat Alex. & waited in a blistering sun till 4 p.m. Had a tough jobkeeping the fellows away from native gin shops, and made myselfmighty unpopular in doing so. There we went on board "Australind"a converted Germ. Australian liner - a real dirty, lousy tub. Therewere 29 officers & 1100 men aboard with sleeping accom. for 9 officers.Ireland, Hancock, & myself getting beds on lower boat deck. LeftAlex at 8 p.m. passing a score of transports, & 6 or so warshipsThe journey was in absolute darkness at night - for a Hun sub.[*Maclagan*] had been seen, & we had a 'sub guard' with orders to shoot quick Our course was rather an erratic one & we passed many prettyislands - so many that I've mixed up their names, but my descripof Imbros would do for each. The deep blue of the Medit. waswonderful - and indescribable. Lemnos was reached after 78 hours'trip & we sailed into Mudros where the 3rd Brig, the base unnamedin Gordon's last letter. The narrow entrance was guarded by warboats, for submarines are about They had a go at a dummywarship which they took for "Big Lizzie." The harbor has roomfor very many ships. After a day or two here at 7pm I wasput on a mine sweeper - 'Newmarket' - & started for Gallipoli -reaching here at daybreak. We were given a great send off fromMudros as we passed the Mauretania, La France, - and especiallyby the sailors on the war-boats - (many here). then away intothe darkness, & danger of subs, which we quite expected to meetoutside Mudros. At 1 a.m. we were off a mysterious black coastand here we heard the first sounds of battle crack! crack! ofsnipers, at close intervals as we lay off the coast. At MudrosI saw my first 'Taube' - Fritz flew over a camp of Frenchiesdropping eggs -Nothing has happened lately - we keep losing men daily, & the5th Reinfts. being well among them. It's either 'bad luck' or to mymind 'destiny' - & anyhow every little we do helps to push thething along a bit further towards crushing Hunland, & breakingup this scum of Europe here in Turkey. So far I believe thecasualties of my old platoon is 5 killed, 8 wounded, 6 Hospitalso we are doing our share. Everyone here is pleased withthe sturdiness of my old boys, they are true soldiers, solid,trustworthy, & what is very essential - cheerful at all times.My new No 9 platoon is a fine one - and we mutually aremuch attached. I don't loaf on my N.C.Os - but try & know everythingthat goes on among them, & try to take every possible care of them.They are to work for me, fight with me, & live with me, & so I musthave their trust, & I can tell you things run pretty comfortablyMy old platoon No 10 is a sister to No 9, & both consist inthe main of Broken Hill men, & I have got on well with them all. They are tough men - but I have had no nonsense fromany of them. Jock Hamilton has No. 10 - he is an old soldierof much campaign experience, & has been a great help to me.He & I can get more out of Nos 9 & 10 than any others can& we give them some tough jobs too. If we were ordered toadvance you can't imagine the feeling of security I have,because I know that Bill Mulvaney, Jack Wreath, Cameron,Hill, Hunter, Baynes, Holland, Connock, & above all Sgt. CHISHOLMEwould be close behind me as we hop over.An epidemic seems to be breaking out here - (blow censor) -a kind of fever with abdom. pains has gripped several of mymen, they have gone to the Hospital. I have an idea thatbut for our inoculation it would turn to enteric. 'Pills' saysit is influenza & a physical reaction after stress of campaign -but does not consider it dangerous so far.I got a fine parcel from Liverpool - chocolate, shortbread,biscuits, & cigarettes - a splendid gift which I am thankingthem for - & hope to do personally soon.I have taken up smoking on your advice - as it drownsvery effectively the 'hum' of the Turkish dead out in front.I don't cotton to the habit yet but will keep it goingtill I get away from this smelly place.Thank you for the papers you send weekly. & I canassure you your letters are tip top stimulators - as theyinspire me to do my very best. I haven't time nor paperto write to Uncle Will and other relatives - so write to themfor me. So far I'm all right, good health, getting promotion,stopping no bullets &c. - So pass this on to Wumps & George.I am tip-top - may be a bit lean- but FIT - & now withbest wishes for best of everything to you all -remainYour Loving son,Rollo