Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: FranceDate: 2 October 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Dear Father & MotherAlthough I do not feel capable of making adecent fist of it - I am going to attempt giving you a full a/cof my trip to England. I am not sure if dates are correct - orthat the sequence of visits is O.K. - but the variations will only be about4 hours. The 'leave party' from our Bn consisted of Clark, Monte,& myself with 4 N.C.Os - none of them were any particular chums- so they scarcely crop up in my doingsOn the afternoon of the 17th the C.O. was good enough to save usrising at 4 a.m. next day - by allowing us to proceed to Hazebrouckovernight - thus saving us much early morning travelling. We leftat about 9 am. on the 18th Sept. France was miserably muddy, wet,& gloomy and I felt elated to get away from it. At Boulognewe boarded a transport as soon as possible, & were awfully afraidof being suddenly called back to H.Q. before we'd got away.However we left Boulogne at last & had a rough time crossingquite 50% being "upsy". On board I met Gordon Cornish & Cliff Boone,returning to Salisbury Camp - I hadn't seen G.C. since Aug 15, norCliff since Nov. 14 - so you can imagine the joy at meeting. PoorCliff lost his brother Reg at Pozieres Windmill - (an old 79th).We gladly sighted the chalk cliffs at Folkestone, rather a dirtygreyish color - & not the poetical silver white we expected - andI felt 10 yrs. younger a few minutes later when seated in atrain & being whizzed up towards London. It was late afternoonbut the weather was fine, & the everchanging vistas constantlyflashing by held my breath & gaze all the time. 88 89 Visit to England. 18th Sept The hop fields, the meadows, real Arcadian woods, pretty littlevillages, all ran into one another - but I was able to appreciatethe beauty of it all instead of it being a kaliedoscope blur.Just as darkness was falling we got into thickly populatedparts - towns full of streets with closely packed houses, & so on,and soon a huge building loomed up in front of us. An Englishofficer interested in my intense admiration of the trip - toldme this was the "Crystal Palace". Then we ran through along tunnel right under the Palace - & soon glided intoVictoria St. Railway Station. We soon detrained, strolledalong the platform, & out through the barrier into the waitingcrowd looking out for their dear ones home by that train.Pathetic were the sights, and I was glad to get away.We got into the street mesmerised by the dimly lit scene,& constant whirling streams of people - busses & taxis - but devila taxi could we get. So we did the next best thing andasked a policeman - who soon put us on to Bus No 77 -change at Charin' Cross - & get a No 11. The policemen ofLondon live up to their reputation & are a marvellous & fine lot.On board 77 we went down Fleet St & passed Horseferry Road, Trafalgar Sq.to Charing Cross - & then No 11 took us down streets whose namesI don't remember - but anyhow we saw all the lions of theplace that first night - Whitehall, The Abbey, Houses of Parl,War Office, Admiralty, Horse Guards, India Office &c.Mighty glad did we feel - & also much like ducks out ofwater as we strolled into the dining room of a fine hotel. 90 91 English trip contd. Sept 18 This was one of London's best hotels - "The Imperial" but we werenot in brilliant mess uniform. I was wearing my old service dress,muddy looking leggings, service boots, & dirty old spurs, but we satdown to one of the finest meals I have ever had. Fine thickcarpet underfoot, snow-white linen cloth, decent cutlery, withflowers galore as decoration, & such a 'spread' - well such thingswe hadn't seen for many a long day, whilst a band - allelderly men - played beautiful music. We stayed on in thedining room till 9.30 - then went upstairs to bed (think of it)and you may guess we slept well. That little spell was worth5 years - as I deliberately forgot entirely the existence of the 50thfor the time being - so as to have an absolute rest & I got itNext morning after a hot bath (!) & breakfast I hurried outto interview tailors, base-kit stores, & so on to get ourselvesrespectably attired - and at lunch time we were far from home.The useful police put us wise to a good place to lunch - hencewe arrived at the 'Trocadero'. The place was crowded, and Iwas slowly working in, when I suddenly heard a familiar voicesing out "Taka heena Army" - a pure Anzac cry from Egypt.I looked round & caught sight of Murray Fowler waving anapkin at me & there in a mob around his big table -I saw Hancock, Monte, Blackburn, Giles, McCan, Jose, Inglis(all old 10th) Day, Bailly, 27th & Hewitt of Artillery - all ourS. A. chums - & you can imagine how Cornish & I welcomed themThat meal cost us 9.18.0 - but Blackburn doesn't get theV.C. every day, so it was excusable. We spent the afternoon 92 93 London trip contd Sept 19. at the Hippodrome in the Royal Box - "Flying Colours" andthis cost us 5 or 6 gs. I'm afraid we rather took charge ofthe show - but - McCann does not get the M.C. every day -Then we had dinner together - & bang went many moresixpences - more theatre - "Happy Day" - and I rememberjoining in with the song "The Perfect Day" before parting.It was a perfect day too I can assure you, the best & firsttime I have ever been 'perfect' in all my life - but it wasworth it - for you can't imagine how pleased we ten ofthe old 10th were to be together once more.Very penitently next morning I went to Service at TheAbbey - & then walked round it. I would have preferred to goabout on my own - but the commercial spirit pervadeseven the Abbey, & we were carted round by a guide, whospoke of the 'Show' in much the same way as one wouldhave the murderers at a Waxworks described. I soon lostthat party & fossicked round by myself.Zep. raids have caused certain precautions to be taken toprotect the most valuable & sacred relics - which were reposingin vaults - whilst many famous tombs were sand-bagged - sothat the war seemed near even in that famous Church.It was splendid to have a decent Church Service again, & Ipurchased a fine handbook - it will do fine for School Library.The vastness & scope of the architectural beauty of the Abbey isindescribable, one felt awed to see the carving, & as for themasonry & the building I cannot describe it adequately so say nix. 94 95 London Sep 19-21 (cont)After lunch went a Parl. House - had a look round - but theactual "meeting room" was closed. Visited the famous WhisperingGallery - listened to our gentle angel footsteps (!) (awful noise), &also took in Westminster Bridge same trip. Old Big Ben isa monster - but looks fine & speaks plainly.I deliberately walked past the Mounted Guardsmen at theHorse Guards to get the salute (first time I've pandied toget one) but it was worth it - it made one feel a soldier.That evening I spent at one of the theatres.Next day - about the 21st - I went to Buckingham Palaceto watch the Guards change over. The Guards were in fielddress - but the bandsmen in Review order. It was a grandsight - fine band, splendid parade ground - but I guaranteemy old C Cy. with a band & similar surroundings would make asgood a showing as the best of the Guards - Anyhow theycouldn't teach us much.From there I went to the 'Tower' - extremely interested inthe Beefeaters - all old warriors - Tel El Kebir ribbon 87, Boer War81, Boer Wars, Afghanistan, New Zealand ribbons & medals. Mostof them have about 4 ribbons & appear to be going strong.One of them took me over the Tower - & brushed up my Historywell. I bought pictures of this place too & a handbook for reference.The Armory was most interesting ranging from a B.C. helmetto the fine suit made for Chas II by his admirers. This of courseis all obsolete now - except the cuirass (artificial) of some Guards,& our trench helmets are copies of the old steel hats - whilstsome [[faddists?]] wear patent bullet proof waistcoats. 96 97 London Visit (contd.) 97The Roman catapults in the Armory & we used the same things atGallipoli & in France for tossing bombs long distances - the Frenchmortar is an old weapon we use with stronger explosives - asfor arrows the Germans drop them from their aeroplanes -Chinese used stink pots hundreds of years of ago - we usetear & mustard gas shells - we pelt bombs at each otherwhile old Goliath got in the way of a pebble - so we arenot very much more civilised today.The Tower has been subjected to various alterations -but you know I love History - so you can guess I hada real feast that morning, I visited the Tower Bridge,a fine piece of engineering, & saw it in action.During the afternoon I strolled down the Strand - saw ournew Australia House - a fine building. Aldwych is nearthe Strand - there I saw the most uptodate business bldgs.not sky scrapers - but plain solid Foy & Gibson sort of places.I also went down Fleet St., The Mall, under the MarbleArch, & round to the famous Courts.The 22nd I put in by getting into touch with my woundedboys - & general sightseeing - & in the evening went to St Pauls.I stood by the Iron Duke's tomb - recalled Tennyson's Ode -Next day I set out for Liverpool & had a most charmingtrip this time through the Midlands We passed Rugby, Harrow,Crewe &c - & saw the first named College from the train - & felt gladto see the scene of Tom Brown's school days. The country issplendid - but different to France & Belgium where every inch is used 98 Liverpool &cIt almost hurt me to see the tenement houses crammedin the towns of England, all alike - & bespeaking the landlordsystem & rent yoke. It seemed an awful shame not to ownone's home. I arrived at Lpool just at dusk & set out todig out the Boltons right away. I'm afraid they lookedout for a 6' 6" Anzac wearing kangaroo feathers &c - for Ipassed by Cis - ( she was wearing specs. so I didn't know her,but when I saw Fred I knew him at once. Cis insultedme by saying I looked "like a Tommy officer" H! - altho'I deliberately speak Australian & walk like an Australian -so no more flash uniforms for me.Kirkdale is a miserable place - almost a slum- butBolton's house is part of the mill - about 8 or 9 rooms -electric light & gas (no rent &c) - so they are very comfortable.I think Fred would make a big mistake to leave his billetfor an uncertain one in Aussy. The Boltons are a finefamily & treated me right royally. Cousin Hannah is areal little brick - Cis & Flo very expert musicians, & Cisis a very good artist as well. The first evening was gonein short time talking about Australia & you folks - It wasfine - ( as Fred would say "Champion"!)- but of course wecould not leave Gallipoli or the Somme alone - Cis & Flohad just returned from a trip to Dysaerth (-Wales) - fromtheir description it would be a most beautiful place.Fred took me on Sunday morning (24th) to the city - & we sawsome fine buildings - many of them (Cunard's &c) really immense. Liverpool trip (23rd Sept 1916)Then we went to the Landing Stage - & crossed over toBrighton on one of the ferry boats, so getting a fine viewof the docks as we did so. I saw many famous boatsall in the Mersey at the one time. The Mauretania asa hospital ship reminded me of the time I sawher at Mudros - so did the Olympic - whilst the"Carmania " looked fit for several more "Cap Trafalgars"Most trade is down to Americans ships like St Louis,Philadelphia & so on- because the U boats are supposed toshy at Mr Wilson's notes.We had a pleasant walk - on the Cheshire side on a fineesplanade about 9 mls. long - but Hoylake was at other end.In the afternoon went to Aintree - visited Jessie Palmer -(husband Jack steward on "Carpathia ") I also looked overthe famous race course - & the largest munition works in Blighty.Monday had a look over the "Carpathia" & in the afternoon withCis went to Waterloo & saw, Cousin Will - Susie, & afterwards onto see Letty - Simpkin - & the nipper - & had tea at Lizzies placeKitty & Cousin Will had arrived home then - They didn't askme much about Eddy - for which I was thankful as I knewvery little. Poor Fred - I reckon those two would be in khakinow if they'd had a chance. On 26th again did Liverpool -& all too soon came the 27th when I got back to London. On the27th I saw some of mine at Wandsworth, & then on 28th tooktrain back for France. I had a good time, & am now fresh &invigorated ready for the Ypres Salient. Boltons were tip top.Much love from your loving son, Rollo.