Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Somewhere in France Date: 4 November 1916 Nationality: Australian Text:Field card - I am well - & recd. letter end Sept. Rollo.S. in France 5.11.16Once again we hear the roar of guns, & in this new Hadeswe find it not only a very hot place, but very liquidy too.From all accounts the very earth here is becoming semi-liquid.The mud is awful - & conditions render any great advanceimpossible - while it is a problem to keep our front linefrom slithering away in the slime. Commun. trenchesare impassible, & all traffic from rear to front is doneby night and overland, - incidentally falling intogreat shell holes full of liquid mud. We are beingwell fitted out for going into action under suchconditions. We ought not to be cold for we wear -singlet, flannel shirt, cardigan or jersey, tunic, thena sheepskin jerkin, & on top a greatcoat - so we will bealright about the body. - whilst with whale oil, waders,rubbers, two sets of gloves, (one fur lined) we ought tokeep free from Chilblains. We are well looked after, & ouronly 'grouse' is that we can't fix up a truce for thewinter months.We've had a record shift. In 10 nights seven diff.billets - so we've done some travelling this trip.We get a fine insight into the characteristics of theFrench people this way - One of the places we stayed atwas a school house, & the master was much interestedby what I told him about S. Aust. At another place 5.11.1916we had a grumpy old farmer - who begrudged sellingstraw for my boys to lie on, he did all he could tomake himself disagreeable;- but he was an exception.French cost of living is very high - & they do not wasteany foodstuffs. Sugar is extremely dear - & meat a luxury.Eggs are also dear - & the French are by no means as welloff as the English - who in comparison scarcely realisethat there is a war at allI am very sorry to be an Australian since that Referendum& must now call myself a Britisher & be proud of that.It seems rot for a nation to turn its sons down whenthey are fighting for it. - Here we are risking every -thing for Australia - & giving our lives willingly, andnow they spurn the idea of properly reinforcing us. Amore hellish idea has never been done that to NO theConscription Referendum - & Hughes seems to us to bean oily-tongued devil. He well knew the conditionof the A.I.F., & should at once have declared forconscription & adequate reinforcements "straight out -without referring the matter to a lot of people who haveno idea of our situation. If I have luck to get backI will make a warm corner for some of the great"shirkers" - Our companies are only about strength,& many are physically weak - for in spite of medicaltestimony only men between 20 & 30 can stand the strain At least 7 of my men are unfit on a/c of age - & outof 104 men only 3 are over 35 & fit for actionThe boozer soon gives to the pack - & is an impedimentso I make a practice of getting rid of my drunks quicklyThat is what makes it so galling that fellows in Aust.in their prime - wowsers & others - vote NO - or in otherwords say - "Yes - let the silly volunteer fools get cut up."- & then they'll get our jobs.Well this is a weird sort of Xmas. letter to send -& for the third time I'll be away from home at Xmas.I quite thought we'd be back before this - but it willmean at least six more months here - and when it'sover you can count me a "homer" in spite of allmy wandering. I suppose George will be home whenyou get this - and keen on making his start in theNorth Sea. It is some time since I saw a Xmastree - but next year I hope to make up for it.I'm as fit as a fiddle - sincerely trust you are thesame, - my thoughts will be particularly with you all onDecember 25th - so accept my best wishes for a Very MerryXmas - & an exceedingly Happy & Prosperous New Year toyou all. Much love to you all fromRollo.I hope the weather clears up about my birthday -If the ground is dry I'll get a bit of my own back fromFritz.