Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Somewhere in FranceDate: 23 July 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Have just dropped George a line re his birthdayI'd forgotten all about it till today. I have so manylittle details to attend to that you must excuse meif I'm remiss in sending along - I remember them O.K.We had a fine mail from Aussie early this week-I heard from Ruby, Pearl, Miss Kimber, besides & thenfrom you & Wumps - & one from Arthur Trudgen.Your letters were 21 & 25 5 it still takes nearlytwo months to get contact - The U boats have causedmost Australian mails to travel via S. Africa now. We are still here - ready to push off at a moment's notice -but our move seems to be held up for a time. The "push"is doing well despite heavy Hunnish counterattacks - butthe beggars are only holding on against us - their poundingaway at Verdun is useless - for even if they get V. it willdo them no good - we have many trumps yet to play.Fritz is doing great gallery play to the neutrals with his" Deutschland" &c. - but we cannot think of Peace untilthe Huns have laid down their arms, followed by theultimate disintegration of the Hunland by the Allieddiplomatists when the due time arrives.I notice the 43rd has sailed at last - & should be acrack battalion - I'm glad Kinnick is getting away atlast - as he'd been trying for a long time. You nodoubt remember the " age clause" - (re young officers) wellif it hadn't been for Kinnick I would not have beenallowed to leave when I did. His younger brothernow has two stars in the old 11thI haven't heard much of the old Brigade for sometime - be we are (Our Army Corps) in close reserve -ready for what Birdwood calls "hard fighting". OurBde (13th) is the top of our Div., Brg Gen Glasgow C.M.G. D.S.O.is proud of our Battn which he classes top of the Bde.Cox has been floating around a good deal the lasttwo or three days - so we feel there'll be somethingdoing with us before very long. We have been waiting some time now for "CloseAction" - not Trench fighting but out in the openif Fritz only gives us an opportunity that way -we will cause them more bother than all the Russians& their advances put together.We have not been resting during the past weeks. Longroute marches each morning, hard training in theafternoon have hardened our boys up considerably.Notwithstanding the fact that the wine which is soldin this village is equal to "Pinkie" our chaps are A.1.We are pretty strong against crimes in our Bde. Some ofmine got on the loose last Monday - (pay day) & suchoffences as drunkenness, A.W.L. &c. brought a courtmartialwhich sat on the offenders with 6 + 4 mos. H.L. respectively.Stanway is not here yet but some of his cobbers haveheard from him, he is out of Hosp. & convalescing.A Co of Stanways would be an ideal one.Haven't heard from Boltons lately- "leave" is stoppedfor awhile - & anyhow most of us don't want 'Leave'until we've had a good old slap at Fritz first. For mypart I'd like to wait until the war is finished -but all the same I daresay I won't say 'no' to 'leave'in about 2 or 3 months' time. When I do get 'leave'I'll get myself right away from Khaki into mufti - & willgo to some quiet spot & enjoy getting "white feathers." George must have felt wild when bailed up for not"recruiting" - but the laugh was on his side.News is very scarce & I have had much difficultyin making up this much in my letter - but thereyou know "No news is good news."Well - you may expect "news" in my next letter -so I will close with very best of all good wishes toyou all - & very much love to all especially yourselves-hoping you're all as well as your loving sonRollo.