Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Dardanelles Turkey Date: 4 July 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:I am writing on 5th to last leaf of pad - so for a while folkswill have to go short until fresh supplies arrive.Mail recd. this morning - papers &c - & Wumps sent alongmy photo which I am forwdg to Boltons with letter onits back. Wish Id had my Sam Brown on when Iwas taken - but I was on a flying visit to Ad. at time,& was also a bit weary - just off train from Millicent.I suppose your holidays are on & Wumps in the thickof her Essay. How is George getting on? I guesshe is sorry the war is just two years too soon for him,& anyhow I have seen 'active service' before he has.Things are much the same here we get a few moreshells put among us - but otherwise we are simply harassgthe Turks & keeping him from reinforcing down South.The Tommies are going the pace down there - have almostenveloped Krythen & in a few days we expect to seethem on top of Achi Baba - the Gallipolian propositionis a harder nut than was expected - To say the least -Jacko is well entrenched & established - so that they are agreat thorn in our side. There are several other Achi Babason this peninsula, lucky will be the man who goes intoevery action & comes out O.K. Several 10th officers have beenmentioned in despatches - I fear there will be some dirtylinen to wash at the end of the war - in connection withsome - (Lor... o - R:mb-ll - & H..b..t). Anyhow if it shouldbe my luck to be mentioned - I hope I will have donesomething to deserve it. I had a little sport during week sniping snipers. One of ourobservers (Sig. Walker) got hold of a fine telescope, and witha little ingenuity fixed it to the periscope. He & I found anest of these snipers well hidden in an artificial bush, & weremost excellently camouflaged. Having found them we had toget them, but it was very risky without exposing ourselvesto their trenches. Anyhow after our first shots at them -and lobbing a few inches from them - raising dust fromtheir painted sand-bags they stopped smiling (theyhad seemed very happy before) & began to look for us. Whiledoing this Walker sniped & I observed - I got him right onto one who dropped. This spot has not been occupiedsince. I feel positive it was from this plant - thatmany Queenslanders were sniped the other day, whilston a daylight stunt - That day I saw within 300yds of me - about 150 Qs . killed & wounded and about50 W.A.s. We could not make out where shots were comingfrom. Turks conceal snipers in absolutely marvellouspositions. There is no doubt we will win through - butit is going to be at a huge cost - We have much moreto learn yet, but we will learn & improve on that.Although beginning to feel the monotony of the trenchesour boys are comparatively cheerful. I am sendingalong one or two true happenings. When a shelllobs near - our boys imitate Jacko -Allah Allahin most mournful tones - also during our sojourn in Egypt - they picked up much Egyptn. bad language -& this comes forth when shells are flying. Our boys arebeautiful linguists - the majority swear fluently inAustralian - & almost the same number use verymany untranslatable 'gyppo' expressions. It is apity - but many have gone out while using foul language.Some cant speak a sentence without swearing. InC. Co. we are campaigning in favor of the good oldShakespearean 'Zounds' - 'by my halberd', 'Gadzooks'&c., in place of language generally used - & I mightsay weve had very satisfactory results. It isfunny to hear a chap ask - Whose zoundingturn is it to carry the water? Poor beggars.'Im afraid Capt. Shaw has been a bit too classical.7. 5. 15Well we are having 2 or 3 days rest in a gullynot far from the firing line - only it's no rest onlya change - for we have lots of fatigues - & we aretraining our men to work out the instances of trenchlife. Col Weir inspected each Co. of Battn. today,platoon by platoon - My platoon was complimentedfor cleanliness, steadiness, & the state of rifles - &the C.O. seemed very pleased with my work. Anyhowhe told the Battn that C. Co was the criterion forother Cos. to follow. Also he gave us the mostwelcome news that we are going away to a placeright away from the firing line for a good, quietweeks rest. Study your map. I am glad for trench work becomes very monotonous. I have been here fiveweeks & am now half way into sixth week. My menhave not yet come up - but are expected daily. Theyare about fed up with Egypt. They'd had enough whenI left - & weather has been terrific since then - 122o, 116o,& 121o in shade!! We officers have subs. to a memorialto be created over the spot where Gen. Bridges fell,I have hunted for Gordons grave - but cant find it.Capt. Kayser thinks as Munro was a fair distancefrom him - & it happened right at the beginning ofthe action - that the spot is somewhere out in front ofour right flank - or else right in Turks' lines. Alsomany who fell those first four days were simplycovered over where they lay. So I very much fearpoor old Gordons remains are lost. Several of us havebeen trying to find out - but nothing definite canbe discovered. We unfortunately have quite alarge cemetery on the beach - most buried here areknown, & crosses have been erected over them - I havelooked round for Alfie Possingham's but I cant findit. His may be down S. for the Brigade was sentS. for a few days. I shall be glad to get out of thisaway from flies & shells - we are very cramped - & it willbe a pleasure to get into a place where we dont haveto turn into rabbits & burrow in holes. Also we arepractically gooled here - Firing line forms a breastwork that anyone seen above it gets shots whistling"Hullo at once - & the other gate - the 'Sea' - iscontrolled by an 'Embarkation officer. Considering allthings health is excellent. Capt Hills lectures to have brought good fruit - but as mid-summer isnow here - we naturally get many flies - but care& cleanliness can even beat them. Wumps can tellMrs Lushy about Gordon & myself following inKinglake's footsteps. K. told us in 'Eothen'about the plains of Tovey - (which we can see)Samothrace - Imbros - & even Cairo, - so we aredoing well. Rigby's have copies - get her to obtainone & send it on to me if she likes - One of yourWoodchester old boys introduced himself the other day.Qr. Master Sergeant Rice of our Co. & he is a goodchap - do you remember him. I must congratulateyou mum on picking these socks they are tip-top -not a sign of a hole in either of pair Im wearing& theyve had some work too. S pace alone iscausing me to shut up' - I hope paper & envelopesare well on their way here now. I hope you areall well. I am tip top - collecting curios - will tellyou about them later.(Gaba Tepe)Island of Imbros 10 7. 15.Just a short note before we go back to Hades again13. 7. 15. Id just started to write above when I wascalled away to a fatigue party to land stores, & havenot been able to get at this since, but I will[*Imbros*]describe our first (& all too short) remove fromthe front out of reach of shells, shrapnel, flies &c.A few mornings ago whilst it was dark we embarkedon a trawler - & went away to Imbros. Des. of trip to Imbros 13.7.15Every yard we got further away from Anzac Covemade us feel very much better - it was a great reliefto get out of the reach of Beachy Bill & his shrapnel,and to say good-bye to machine gun fire. Our nerveswere speedily brought back to normal. There is nodoubt about it - but anyone's nerves get shakyafter a few days of shrapnel - especially as we putin such long periods. Battns in France do 3weeks in trenches 2 weeks rest - we have donenearly 12 weeks' trenches - 3 days at Imbros &4 days 'Hades' i.e. attempting to rest at Beach &a certain gully at Anzac. We are back in the fireline again - very much better for our short andpeaceful sojourn. Our battn is well up to Strengthnow - my boys arrived while I was away, & Ihave many of them in my platoon. Lynch - myActg. Sgt. Major is with me in the platoon, & the otherlads are doing well. One has been 'put out' alreadyPri. Waite - stray shrapnel pellet got him in theheart - while Weaver & Harrison were woundedjust before I arrived. 3 of them Wright, Frear, &Kellett - are invalided to Aussie - so a hole hasbeen made in my little band already. I wish I hadsole charge of them - they were the best disciplined& trained troops that have left Australia. Poor littleGurmoni has been shaken up by shrapnel - Hisnerves went after 3 days - & I'm afraid he'll haveto go to hospital to recuperate. Some played up in[Seppo?]. Some got 28, some 14, some 7 days while there other warfare than trench. 10.30 dismissed, threemen limited. I got out as much as I could & madethe best use of my short visit. On the first day4 of us went to Aerial Station - (3 mls rough track)& were shown over the station, & had the pleasure ofwitnessing two or three departures & arrivals of hydros.They seemed well nigh perfect. We tried to see if therewas any chance of a ride - but only Artil. observ.officers go as passengers so we had no hope.Next day a party of 60 of us left camp - 10.30 - onponies to visit Parlegere - the largest village. Wehad one of the most picturesque rides I've ever seen,Mt Bera - Cudlee Creek - well we rode up gulliesmuch similar in appearance - covered with bracken-paths or tracks rough & stony - & only allowed one file.As we got higher gullies became narrower - but insome parts Greeks had managed to grow crops ofwheat, while I stained my jacket with mulberryjuice - & at one farmhouse were able to get apples,pears, & a poor type of cherry. When almost atthe top - we came to a most beautiful spring - clearcool, running water -(tip-top). At the top the viewwas marvellous - sea in the distance - town & port ofCastro mounted high on leeward side of a bluff, - ahuge, fertile, well cultivated Mt Gambier flat in themiddle of which stood Panegere - nestling amongmany green trees. The view was great. Think that lessthan 20 miles behind the scene of peace & content but I blame officers in charge for that. They didnot hold the men, nor take any interest in themWe're glad to have them here anyhow.-------------I will give you some news of Imbros - it is only11 miles by 15 m. roughly - surrounded by thebluest of the Medit. It was once volcanic, two orthree hills have extinct craters on top - Even nowtwo or three earthquakes occur or the year is incomplete.There are 7 villages & 2 ports on it. Kephaloson E side is a great base - full of war ships, stores,soldiers, & naval aerial station. We were camped atKephalos on a stubble field - Fancy 3 days undercanvas - & sleeping on blankets over 6" of straw -fancy unlimited supplies of fresh water for washing& drinking purposes - fancy nice WHITE freshbread for every meal - fancy no harassing'Stand -to' , no sound of shrapnell shells &c -why we were in absolute Elysium fields - Onlya few chains away were stores. 2 lb tin peaches3/6 - Apricots 2/6, eggs 1d each - chocs & so on-& you can guess we did V. well. Lived like kingsfor those 3 days - & had an absolute rest - Reveillewas blown 5.30 a.m by C.O did not curse anyone -so long as camp was cleaned up & men on parade 8.30From then till 10 - March in file up hills - & thenpractice 2 or 3 formations - so as to be prepared for Imbros.was a Hell. Anyhow Panegere greeted us innarrow, winding, flagstoned streets with cries of "GoodAustralians" &c. The Greeks seemed very pleasedsee us there. We had lunch - & pottered about till4.30 p.m. & then home about 8 p.m. We had avery Enjoyable trip & benefits were great - in foodnote-paper, fruit, chocolate &c.. Those, who wished,even obtained 'wine'. The morality of these Greeksforms a great contrast to the immorality of EgyptWe weren't even chased by small fry for backshGreeks anyhow these here - especially appealedto me - They have a hard simple, agric. life yetseem quite happy. On their farms we saw theold method of "treading the corn" winnowing bytossing, milling in the old fashioned mill &c.Woman are very pretty when young - & extremely uglyas they get aged. I tried to get some G. post stampsbut none obtainable. I got an old coin from ajoker I called Spigoli - who was my guide. TheGreeks here were only too pleased to do anythingfor us - & in return the conduct of troops was mostexcellent. One shop keeper got our autographs,& persisted in getting us to write 'Australia' afterour names. Anyhow our "peace-period" soon passedaway, & all too soon were we packed on to trawlers,& sent once more to the Anzac Front lines. Rollo.