Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Cove Lone Pine Date: 24 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Last Aug 5 I mentioned we were in for a big action& expected it might lead to a general advance allroundWe waited for 3 days hourly expecting to be sent totake up a position on San Barr (or Gun Ridge) about1 1/2 to 2 miles ahead. The chief objective was Hill 971(the Mt Lofty of the whole hill system here) If wecould get & hold that, we hoped to be in a dominatingposition as far as operations here were concernedFrom various indications we knew there was abig move being made elsewhere - for our Navaldept. had been particularly busy, and ourgullies terraced & manned by many reserve troopsnot Australians. One certain day these reservesas we thought them were moved right round to theleft so that on Aug. 6th we had an army landingat Suvla Bay, & many fresh men on our left.At 4.30 p m. the action started - our Artilleryconcentrating on certain objectives, The 1st Brig.was on our (10th) left. (only about 100 yds from C. Co.)& on their left was the 2nd Brigade The 1st had infront of them Dead mans Plateau leading toLone Pine Hill - about 200 yds. in front of the line.We could see that the Turks had 3 lines of trencheson Lone Pine - a rise of 20 in 100 yds, & on the lefttop there was another trench - German Officers TrenchAt 5 pm. so as to draw the Turks to our end we made a demonstration - then a few minutes latera L.H. Brig on our left right made a feint, & then justat 5.15 out went the 1st Brig. (2nd Battn on ourimmediate left) to take the 4 trenches to their front.Meantime the 3rd L.H, the 4th Batt, & the N.Z. troopsassisted by some Tommies had [[marched?]] out, andwere attacking the ridges just below 971. Howthey got on I will tell you later - but I willnow give a brief description of the Lone Pine FightI was busy controlling the 'covering fire' of the10th when the 2nd Battn took the first trench & asthey were also somewhat to our rear I did notsee that part of their work. I caught glimpsesof the fight for 2nd & 3rd trenches. The Turksin our front were evidently thoroughly scaredor many were called away to hold the 'Pine' -for the fire in front of us appreciably declined& all we could see in front of us was anoccasional pair of arms as Johnno fired hisrifle over the parapet without any aim at allI then had an idea of what loss of 'morale' means& I feel certain that having gained fire superioritythat if we had been "allowed" to go out we wouldhave taken Jockos first line without much loss,& as our boys were keen & confident it is a greatpity we did not go out. Never had of seen such enthusiasm - cooks- fatigue parties - etc. were allup in the lines, & it only needed the word 'GO' tostart us - & I guarantee that in five minutesthere wouldn't have been a live Turk on either ofthe two ridges in front of us. The third ridge& valley we knew nothing about - it was becauseof our ignorance of these we were kept back.(I believe Munro lies out in the second valley toour front. - The Valley of Despair - so Holland ofthe 13th Battn told me - but as I also heard hewas killed on one of the hills flanking the BeachI am a bit sceptical - anyhow Munro liessomewhere beyond the Turkish lines.)The 2nd Battn took the first Lone Pine Trench withcomparatively little loss - but as they left thattrench to get the second - they got it 'hot'.Machine guns were on them from all directions,& communication trenches were unusable owingto bombs - so our chaps had to go 'overland'.About 30 yds. in front of the trench they cameto wire. - The few planks they brought wereinsufficient, & the guns had not cut the 'wire'so that no gaps could be found. The machineguns simply mowed our boys down like hay untilthey made a gap through which they rushed.The next difficulty was to get into the trench for the Turks were covered in with extra strongbomb proof shelter- their thick overhead cover hadnot been hurt by our heavy bombardment. Youmay imagine how we felt to see our boys movingup & down looking for an opening, & all the timebeing sniped & bombed. The din, dust, & smoke werefrightful, occasionally we would get glimpses ofan Aussie firing his rifle into the Turkish trencheswith his barrel out of sight poked through thecovering or loophole - others were trying to takeoff the overhead cover by lifting the planks to.I dont know how they did it but the secondtrench was taken. Then the other Aussies hadfought their way up the communications withgreat losses (hand to hand fighting) but beingsoon reinforced - set out 'overland' to No 3.Here they met the same trouble cross fire fromM.G, rifles, bombs, shells, & turnout wire followedby overhead covers. I saw a score or so go up& down till they found a breach, then one withhis bayonet well down & jumped in to certaindeath probably, for by this time the Turks hadtheir rear trenches choc a bloc with men.Anyhow his mates followed the first man & Iguess they soon made a stir down belowAfter this the 3rd trench was fairly in our hands and now an attempt was made on GermanOfficers Trench out of our sight. This trench wasnot very big - but was crammed with bomb-throwers& covered by machine guns on other positions, so thatwith barbed wire it was a very stiff position &this attack failed.The fighting kept on for around the 3rd trenchthere were scores of commun. trenches - full of Turks& bombs - yet to be won - others had to be barricadedagainst constant counter attacks which lasted for4 days, and will never hear the exact numberof casualties. Both the 1st & 2nd Brigades hadto be withdrawn for the total number of fit menleft was under 1500 - One of N.S.W. battalionsfinished up with only 2 officers - Geof Prisk waswounded again - (Capt. now) & troops had to becalled in from everywhere as we had a hardjob to hold Lone Pine. I had seen severalactions - but this was a battle - although itwas only a minor one to hold the Turks from971 & vicinity. The 10th suffered a few casualtiesbut nothing compared to the colossal losses of others.I have been in badly bombed positions at times -but the bombs thrown in this action were notto be counted - I will leave a further descript.till tomorrow - 2 Parcels O.K. May go to Egypt tore-fit - & possibly may see Boltons after all.Rollo