Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 22 June 1916 Location: Near Armenitieres Nationality: Australian Text: Note We are near Armentires. new unitsN Flanders.Dear Father & Mother,-We have just recd. portion of a maila letter from Mum while at Inglewood, am glad to knowHarry & Mum had a good time at Houghton - but sorrythat Dad wasn't able to be there tooNo news from here - except we're in"close support" - less than a mile from the firing line& have met most of my old chums in the 10th - especiallyold Jack Hamilton who in Gallipoli was like a big brotherto me. He is one of the best - & hope he gets through O.K.Not seen Maclagan, Weir, or Giles yet - but hope to soon.Was assured to read S. is on his wayback. - I might have had such a holiday - but the"Sat afternooners" are no good at this game - they arebest at Mitcham teaching the boys to "form fours." Whatthe d. is Stipp doing - still suffering from "shock" - oris he a "recruiting officer."This will not be a very newsy letter -except that the firing line is really dangerous, & S.should be told so before it's too late. Fritz usesshells, bombs, & aerial torpedoes, & at times knocksour trenches inside out & the occupants rotten - butfortunately we have artillery too, & play the samegame - only we send about 6 to their 1, & their frontlines must get a hell of a time.The aerial torpedoes are awful things. I am by no means a hero. I don't mind admitting Idread these beggars. I have seen the effect of them -they're about the limit. They bore about 6' or 9' intothe ground - & blow out a hole to that depth andabout same diameter. I have seen the damage that20 of these did to some trenches - 150 men took 4 hoursto repair them next night. They can be dodged withluck - but without luck - !!However where they use these fakes, we reply with"pudding" bombs. A pudding for a family of 100 representstheir size - so you can guess Fritz doesnt "stomach" them well.Fritz is a shrewd Enemy, uses all sorts of tricks, butas you know we don't use our brains at all, so theydo as they like - I don't think!! I could tell you afew tit bits concerning the hobby I am now busy with -but of course I must obey the Censor's rules. Fritzis shrewd & clever;- they have taught us much, andI really believe we will be and are Excellent pupils.Birdwood inspected us yesterday & told us wewould have "plenty of "it" directly" - so we are expecting ajourney over the top soon. I have put my name for"Blighty leave" well down on the list - altho' its reallydue this week - but having brought the boys so far Ithink it my duty to take them into Fritz territory.We are exceedingly busy night & day, so I am tirednow - but will write later. Best of all good luck, success,happiness, much love, & hope you are as well as.Your loving Son, Rollo