Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Same damned old place Date: 21 August 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Just had the pleasure of seeing 17 bags of mails sink beneaththe Medit, a Hosp ship collided with a mail lighter- and2 200 bags of mail for 1st Div. (17 for 10th) are now being perusedby Neptune & Co. This is the second lot of ours gone - so theluck of the 10th is not too good.Here we are in the same place - our huge attempt to pushthrough has fizzled out, and the "Staff" is thinking.My word if ever we get back to Aussy you will hearmy opinion of this openly, 'Bungle', 'bungle' all the time.The 10th are doing their 18th week in the trenches, havinghad only 9 days relief in that time. - Every day we arelosing men - mostly through sickness. Out of my Rfts. 43have been struck off - & over 20 of these sickness.Ireland went away with dysentery, & 4 other officers soonfollowed. Everybody seems to have had stomach trouble, andmost are very weak - but devil a spell do we get, andnow we are warned a winter campaign is expected,All we can do is just to hang on - until our ranks aredepleted so that we will have to be withdrawn. The"Fighting Tenth" is a sorry wreck now - I think we havenot 100 men (including returned wounded) who wentthrough the first 4 days, & the casualties of my Rfts.speaks for itselfPersonally I am very fit but tired - so will close now. 21.8.1915Jock Hamilton has just been promoted Capt, & istransferred to D Co. Major Shaw is acting 2-O.C. of10th Stopp has gone away sick so that Cornish isacting O.C. of C and I am second to him. As he hasbeen off colour lately, I have been virtually in commandThree N.C.O have just been promoted to 2 Lieut. & are withus, so next to Cornish I have been longer with C Comp.than any of the others. Among recent promotions three A.H.S. boys get theirfirst 'stars' - Henwood, McCairn, & Gordon. The latterhas just gone away ill - and so has Loutit - an old mateof School of Mines days.As 'Snow' case is being re-tried Jacky Hughes & Charlie Bothare still kept back - & Hughes especially has bad luck.He was to have been with the 10th but being in the 'Intell'Dept at the beginning of the war - he had so much to dochasing Hun spies, that H.Q. blocked him till mattersstraightened themselves out.According to all accounts the 3rd Contingent played up'Old Harry' in Cairo, took charge of the town in fact helpedby Tommies - but the latter & N.Z. men slunk awaywhen trouble came along. Result is we are kept hereas H.Q. are afraid of conduct of new troops.Great fuss is made of the N.Z. divisions - but let megive you a fact or two. "Quinn's Post" episode is O.K.now so I can speak out. The N.Z. really funked theTurkish attack & we had to open up enfilade fire tomake them face the Turks. If Quinn's had goneour whole position would have been opened up - so at lastpicked men from the Aust. were put in - and weturned the tables. Result- no Turks now withina mile of Quinns but what makes our boys wildis the fact N.Z. are being relieved though they landedin comfort compared to our lot - and have only had5 weeks in the trenches at most. Some of the N.Z. arefine battalions - but others are worse than Light Horse,The latest joke here is that L.H. "offered to serve asinfantry." Some of my men came upon an old "pozzy" & found in it a German blue grey overcoat wrapped rounda bottle of Johnny Walker. The boys were extremely annoyedto find the bottle was very empty - but it seems hard luckthat the enemy can get good British whisky whilst wehave to put up with inferior Grecian truck. One of mymen wept over the empty bottle - but they nicked allthe buttons from the coatI have got some fine copper driving bands off someshells which lobbed near me - & if I get them back toAustralia they will make fine serviette rings.Scott has just been sent to Hos. with a fearful coldand a touch of rheumatics.I can't tell you any news yet of this "great" operationwhich has fizzled out very dismally, - but you'll getit some day. Trench life is miserable plenty of sicknessand stink - but very little glory.I am still in excellent health - but send along awarm woollen singlet with sleeves if we winter in thismiserable hole. Good luck. Much love from Rollo.