Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Lapland or like itDate: 29 January 1917 Nationality: Australian Text: Dear Father & MotherThank heaven Iceland has not yetdeclared war, & there is no chance if the A.I.F. being sent thereI have been physically unfit to write letters the last threeweeks - & during that time & more the weather has been terrible.Just after I last wrote we turned upinto a front area - & with the line - & now we are still undershell fire - & expect to go in again in a fortnight's time.I've had four letters from you in thistime - but the cold has been so intense - that altho Itried three times - I could not hold the pen.Three weeks ago the ground was coveredwith mud to any depth - then we had snow - thickheavy snow & constant too - but anything but artisticor poetic &c, covering the ground to a depth of 9 inches& more. Fortunately, in many ways, we have been havinghard continual frosts lately, & everything is frozen hardall day long. I never knew what 'cold' really is -until our past few weeks. As soon as we take ourfingers out of gloves (they are frost-bitten) - & our feet get frozen unless we keepup violent exertion to keep the circulation going.The water in the shell holes is coated with over9" of ice - & if these holes were only better connectedwe could get up skating parties. Any water pouredon the ground freezes at once & our footing is rathertreacherous. The roads a fortnight ago were knee deep in mud but arenow frozen as hard as asphalt.Anyone who has to 'hop over' at this time of the yearhas an awful time to dig in - for the top 18" of the soilis frozen as hard as concrete. That is one reason whywe are not advancing - not because of the cold orthe enemy - but because of the impossibility of being able to dig in adequately against the certain shell fire.I've seen Bapaume from a distance - we were inthat particular, valley during our 3 weeks tour of thefront areas, & are now in immediate support (close)for another 3 weeks & then we go right round againI got a note from Will Drury - forget his addressbut the Divy is somewhere this wa. He said some oftheir men had 20 days leave in England - & I thinkits a shame the men who have been fighting so longget least leave. I've some men (about 70) with over9 mths minimum service, who haven't had any leavelet alone a trip to Blighty - Thank god- Im notone of the "dinkums" or a "hypersuper dinks" eitherMost of the Rfts we get now are Compuls. volunteersso after all they can be classed as conscripts.Our last tour didnt get us many casualties - butwe're still under shell fire - & will be in the thick of it in a few days.Tell Jim O'Connor I am sorry to hear of his bad luck. A married man should not be sent to this war,it is unfair to his wife & children for him to cometo this sort of playI applied to - to get Stanway transferred to usbut I got word he'd again had to go to Hosp, & wasvery sick too. He was a splendid fellow - a greatbomb thrower, and an acquisition to any unit.Sorry to hear about Cog. - even we have nothad the full strength of that "stunt" yet - itwas officially called a "Successful raid" - but it wasknown that an Aust Div. got so smashed that itisnt fit yet & has since been engaged in trenchduty. The G.O.C. concerned has been displaced, &many O.C. returned to Australia - so it seems tohave been a very unfortunate affair indeed. (Fleurbaix)Many of the men who were wounded on 12 Augare coming back now - but were a long way off having the old G. back. My drunken sub. hasbeen transferred to the dinkums so one of my worriesI nicked my ankle in the confounded mud - notbad enough to go to Hosp, but enough to make mewary - & I still feel it at times.Let me know definitely when G will arriveI put off my leave (28.12) so as to suit him - butif I dont hear Ill take leave about the end ofFeb, as it wont do to put it off longer. It does one good to hear G is physically fit -even if he is wearing his jaw in a slingIm writing to Lieut Hill inviting him toenlist before compulsion comes on - so I will stopthis letter.I hope you had a good time in Adelaide, &that if you are there next midwinter, I may beback again with my job successfully finished.I hope Dad gets his teeth fixed up O.K. & thateverything is satisfactory.Best of all good wishes, & much love toyou all fromYour loving son,Rollo.2 Letters to cousins J & Hsent out later - writtenabout same date.