Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Anzac Cove EgyptDate: 5 October 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:Yesterday I recd. letters from you, Wumps, & Harrydated Aug. 15 & 22 - one from George 15/8. & one fromUncle Will. who with Aunt Amy sent along WA papersI also heard from that Clark - one of my subs. sent newsfrom Bob Smith (ex. orch conductor A.H.S.). had hadnews that Cornish & myself had 'gone out'. Don't take anynotice of rumors tc., unless you hear from Defence Dept.We are still going strong - & only wish we were let looseon the lot in front of us. We are not relieved yet. Fancyall in trenches or under constant fire since April 25th- but if the Sultan & Kaiser will only "trot out their troopsof Turks". I think we are good enough to try them out.'Nothing doing' just now - but we won't settle down towinter quarters without showing 'Jacko' that we have astrong punch or two left. The news from Franceseems better - to the chagrin of the Clown Prince - & itseems as tho' Russia has stopped Fritz from advancing.The Dagoes have very difficult country to fight in - butall the same they must have a big army ready topush in somewhere. Bulgars & Greeks are stillsitting on the rail making faces at each other, onewaiting for the other to step down first.I was hoping we'd be in England before this andhaving a whack at Germany - but apparently the'Brass Hats' don't think enough of this Show. If we were properly supported - we would be able to cleanup this peninsula & Constan. - & then I believe theAustro-German Confederation would crumble quicklyHowever we have to sit down, grin at one another,& howl at 'Jacko' to wait till we get our temper up.There's been the big mistake all along. Not enoughpush - & when we have pushed not enough powerbehind to push the object clear. There are exceptionsto the rule - 'All things come to him who waits' - theresult of our waiting so long - is that a mightylot more Turks have come, & miles of their trenches.In this company I thought I recognised a face& found it was a Ballarat H.S. boy whom I'dplayed against in 1910 & 12. Two old class matesin Charlie Gill & Snider Taylor came to me theother day. Taylor is in "Dolman's Dinkums" - whohave been here barely three weeks, & don't knowwhat a Turk is yet. Paul is with them - but helooks very weak. His brother fell somewhere onAchi Baba - and he has sworn to avenge him.Blackett is also with D.D. but I haven't seen himyet. I'm writing to our Agent General to getfrom Army H.Q & India Office particulars reprocedure tc necessary to joining Indian ArmyI don't see myself settling down under, Mayghan & Co. There will not be much show in Aussie excepttemporary appointments or Saturday afternooners -& I believe in the Indian Army it is possible tolive on one's pay, & I would like to take up Mil.work permanently. so I'm putting out feelers.No English mail lately. I've not felt in themood to give you the rest of the details of thatSavi Bahr action - but there are two instalmentsI must send later 1. "The counter attack at LonePine" - 2. "How we won Hill 971 & how Pommieslost it." Hope to hear soon that more Htn.boys are in - especially Pitmans & Hodges.I'm quite fit & well - & hope you're ditto.Rollo.