Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Habeita CampDate: 15 February 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Jacko hasnt come to hand yet- though hes onlyabout 30 miles away at a place called El KantaraI wish theyd bustle along to us for one gets tiredof toiling and waiting at this job. I think theyre onlyputting up a bluff - menacing the Canal to draw us -as they know we must guard the whole length.Anyhow we will wait in patience - and as long aswe get a chance later at the Huns in Francewe dont care. We want to have a cut in there. Rollo. By this time you've had my lettersre the evacuation - and where we were then - so I don't needto say any more - except it's quite true that men werefrozen to death at Suvla - over 200 disabled at Lemnosin one night - severe frost bites. Russell (one of theM.O. of 3rd A.G.H) - told me these men were sent to hishospital - & several cases of amputation (toes & feet - )so that it was pretty serious. - and the Crimeanexperiences would have been nothing compared to oursif we'd wintered at Gallipoli. I thank God wehave not to go back there.It's about time we had another scrap. Our lastwas on Nov. 16 - so we are getting the fighting itchagain.I was glad to get those prints of Jan 10th - and Ihave placed them in my pay book. The two kids -Harry & George have grown very much (especially thelatter) & both look tip top. I suppose Harry as aBoy Scout is beginning to fancy himself now he's inII Class. You two look well - but what about B.she doesn't show anywhere. Harry's engine looks A.1.I'm glad you liked the things Wumps got for me -& suppose you've already got those articles from Cairo.Had a letter from Stan the other day. Replied curtly.My word "campaigning" soon bring out one's weaknesses -Stan simply had "funk" - got ill in Egypt - was only 9weeks at Gallipoli - & will be lucky if the seniors allow himto rejoin. Our present C.O. (Col. B . . . r) is not on good termswith me - nor any others of the officers. He was oneof the Weymouth Brigade - (our name for cold-footers atWeymouth Depot) - and joined up as we were leaving ANZAC.He is the antithesis of Col Weir - and is very unpopular.So far he and I have not crossed one another - butindirectly his orders affect my men & myself - and he& I won't live together long.There is a rumor around that some transfers are beingaffected - and I feel like applying for one. Shaw & Gilesare away on leave - and I believe forming new battalions - soI would pack up too if I only knew what's doing.I shd. have had my Captaincy last Oct., but becauseof an inferior "senior" I was and am still blocked.Since August I have been doing 2/ in commandwork & No. 9 Platoon - the first being a Captain's job -& for 6 weeks I was O.C. of a Company. I may be tooyoung for a Captaincy - but if I'm doing a certainjob - I should get the equivalent rank - and ifI don't get it soon - well I'll go for a transfer.It's hard to think of leaving my old boys - butone's only alive one day & perhaps pushing up daisiesthe next - & one can't keep in the same old groove.I am watching very closely & believe I can see aloophole ahead - but will let you know more whenI am certain of my ground. Everybody is thoroughly sick of this bounder - especiallyour Senior officers - and he is a most impossible C.O.I will tell you a bit more if I get back to S. Aust.His manners make him positively Hunnish - andmany are the curses Ive heard my seniors mutter - andI sympathise with them. The officers loathe & despise him& only obey because of his position - & a strong sense ofduty - while the men absolutely hate himIf Col. Weir had only seen the 10th at Tel El Kebir resentingcertain words spoken to them by B. last New YearsDay - I reckon hed have wept. I felt sorry for theme - who were raked fore & aft - just because of the conductof a few miscreants. If he had shot one or two menwho were innocent - he could not have rankled themmore - his words - well every one cut like a whip -He spoke to the men as if they were dogs. & I can tellyou it was only the mens respect for some of us, andour influence over them, that there was not serioustrouble. As it was he was counted out promptly.In our Battn there is perfect harmony - except where heis concerned - yet tho so far weve never disagreed -I cant stand him - & dont be surprised if I cablea change of address. Four officers are away- Weir(off the strength) likewise Hurcombe - Shaw - Giles & Lorenzois trying - so I may get a show.No more news- much love & best wishes to allRollo.