Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 17 August 1916 Location: Poizieries Nationality: Australian Text: One thing I did was to stop a panic in another officer'scompany - nuf sed - but I will tell you about it whenI get back - or if my luck is out Lieut. Rule can give youdetails of Aug 12 to 15. Sgt. Nuttall could tell youall about it - & especially a particular part nearMoquet Farm - but please dont mention the nameof Chl Sm-h-th to me - Honors are demeritedby bad awards - but nuf sed' at present. I amwell content to have a whole skin, & hope I can getthrough other stunts as well. God grant it.I have re-trained my Co. and when we go in wellmake things hum I can tell you.Lehman, Johns, & McEwin are O.K - & Ill write later. of the other three Companies under Rule & myself.On our right the other three Batts failed so that I& my three Cos. were perched in the air.I tried hard to get the men dug in - but after30 minutes of hell & vain endeavour (with openflanks) I gave the word to get back to our line.I lost 43 men in a very short hour !!!All that night Fritz rained angry shells on us, & allthe next day too. It was terrible but we held fast.At 9 p.m. we were relieved, but even there ourtroubles did not end - we were shelled all the way home,& had a corporal buried. Altogether C lost 105 men 19 killed 16 missing (blown to bits mainly) & rest wounded.Scott was badly hit I doubted whether he wouldget to the ambulance. I had just promoted him.Our boys earned their name "The Fighting Fiftieth".4 - days of hell - 4 nights of double HELL , on oneissue of water, and half a dozen biscuits!!!I am satisfied my training was O. K. the boyswere well tried - & the trial proved them true & brave.Anyhow we've opened the way to Mouquet Farm, &perhaps to Thiepval as well.God guarded me for I was reckless at times and I hope in 10 days' time He will again help me.Much love & best of all good wishes fromYour loving SonRollo- Second stunt (14.5.16)Contd .Poizieries Omitted letter 25.8.16 (Go back to 60) begun on 66(Continuation) France