Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Date: 29 August 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: I enclose 1. list of casualties I want kept - 2. Names ofmy 5th Rfts. 3 Some Egyptian. stamps 4 a snap of ColonelBob Elliot O.C. 7th Battn - a Melb. Uni. man - who wason the "Australind" - (returned after wounded) - & he & I goton well together. - Our job here is same as usual -carting sick to the Hosp. & devil a man do we get intheir place. 53 of 5 Rfts. have gone away & only 1 back -Hancock has gone too - & counting in Weir we have lost11 officers the last fortnight, & 2 others have returned. H.Q. are waking up - 4 officers now do the work inS st., that Hancock & I had to do alone, and I am gladto hear all officers have to do 2 months' service with thebattn before taken on the strength - as that willgive a show to those promoted from the ranks.The 27th is a "rag-time" show - and have a name. - but I will have more to say of them later.Col. Weir is now Acting Brigadier as MacLaganis away temporarily. If all the officers had "stuck it'like Weir it would have been better - but few have.I saw Col. W. the other day. and he asked of home & you.He introduced me to several big-wigs of H.Q - as "sonof an old school mate" - & that he was watching mewith interest. Anyhow I hope he becomes Brig. Gen& gets D.S.O. for the fine work he has done.Shaw is now temp. O.C. 10th - Giles is second-Cornish O.C. of C. company, Both Lauders are dead.If letters haven't come to hand blame the censor atthe base I've written once a week.No we haven't got past the first step on ourway to Constantinople and God knows whether weever make a second step. I wish Kitchener wouldsend us soldiers not boys to do the business. If whatI have seen - (with a few glorious exceptions) are trainedsoldiers will pack up & leave the Empire. I see inan English paper the Aust. are spoken of as untrainedbut God help us if we have to rely on the miserablehalf starved, flat-chested 'men' in certain regiments nearus - if they are specimens of "Kitcheners trained men". Our "untrained men" - fought from Apr. 25 to 29without rest or relief of any kind - and are nowdoing their 19th week in the trenches - and I reckonthe Australian is the best soldier in the Empire.The trained British batts. do 3 weeks & are thenpulled out for a month - so Aussy can standit O.K. Its marvellous. The Tommies here can'teven speak the King's English - & our boys soongot tired of listening to them. Conscription willbe the only thing for them and Australia too.Ireland was upset by some bombing one night8 or 9 weeks ago - & has not shown up since. Anyhowhe didn't appear to have what is commonly knownas 'guts' and his sickness was opportune.Nothing doing down our end lately. Ourboys with the British & Pommies are doing goodwork up North. We call the Regulars Indians& Australians - 'British' - but Pommies arenondescript. Connaught Rangers are tip-top.Trench warfare is damnable - but not eventhe Devil nor Mahomet with him - can shift usfrom these trenches.I am O.K. Recd. letters from Wumps, Mr Anner,Kimbers &c. Love to all - News is very scarce.Who sent McE. a feather to get him enlisted? Ibelieve we are to be relieved soon. Best love,Rollo.