Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: Somewhere in FranceDate: 14 July 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: Since I wrote we have travelled very many miles, & arenow a good distance from the firing line. Our boysare not yet in the Somme battle area - but we arebeing held up in readiness to take our part soon.At present we are being stiffened up - plenty of marches50th has footed over 40 miles last 3 days. Entrained anddetrained twice, - and we are regular veterans asregards "being on the tramp". All our gear is cut downto the minimum, - our transport follows us everywherein rear of each Co. is the "Cooker" - with steam up,fires burning. Everything ready for our grub. A fine idea. This morning (4.30) we marched 8 miles without brekker -to this village - (don't know the name yet) - which is about12 miles from Doullens - on Germany side.The inhabitants are the most rural folk I ever saw& we were the first "Aussies" they had met - so that wehad a rough spin at first;- barn doors locked, barbwire across lanes, and one or two places we had toliterally force open. However they are quite nice tous & civilised now, & will do anything for usThe lady with whom Todd (2 in C.) & I were billetedwas a very crusty sort at first - but now she haschanged right round, after grudgingly giving us a room.She can't do enough for us now - has found roomfor our 'domestiques' - (batmen) & my "Chevaux". Themare has a tip-top stable - & as for wheaten hay -well the old dame just now gave the mare almosta complete haystack.At another place we were in (Estaires) Todd & I hadgreat luck. We arrived after a night march at 3.30amjust as it was getting light. The lady got up - madeus some coffee, & my word it was good. We were thereonly 12 hours - but she looked after us well. Her onlyson 'went out' last year - so you can guess herfeelings against the "Allemandes" were intense.That same afternoon Major Herbert & I wereselected by the C.O to represent the 50th at a 34 Mayoral Garden Party or At Home - and itwas dead funny. The hosts could not "compre" us,nor could we "compre" them, - but we had a good time.so you can guess it was a funny old life we had.This village doesn't hold one inhabitant who can"parlez vous Anglais", & as we "non compre Francais"we get along very well with the townspeople.Now we're out of Flanders, we've lost touch withthe Flems - whom I believe to be pro-German insentiment and action.Our march this morning was quite Arcadian -Woods, hills, gullies, real poetical brooks, meadows -poppies, green grass, crops of ripening wheat, daisies,red clover &c, growing wild in the fields - made ourroute very beautiful. No mud here like we had inFlanders - nor are there the many ditches (-a laMillicent drains a la Flanders) for the land isdrained naturally.This part of France - (not Flanders) - is a verybeautiful country and Sir Thomas More hadno need to go to America for his basis of Utopia.for this country would have amply sufficed.Goldsmith's "Traveller" describes it well - in factit is real poetry just to travel through it.I used to think the "babbling brook", "sweet smellingprimroses" "meadows pied with daisies &" all poetic "tosh"but my word we saw it in reality here & it was fine.