Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: SerapeumDate: 5 April 1916 Nationality: Australian Text:This letter holds our regimental crestand when we get more money will be ourbadge as well - what do you think of it. I genuinelythink it is too squat - and more of our flag should be shownHowever my vote was only 1 among the 20 who adopted it.I got a fine parcel from you yesterday - tip top - andall arrived in prime condition Bovril I will keep with thequinine. Boracic Acid &c until reqd. - the sox I am usinglikewise the camphor. The malted milk came in fine timeand I have used it already. Major Herbert - (my bestfriend) has been off color two days afr he went to bed& for those days he has been using that milk - but itas been no avail - the M.O. has just ordered him to theHospital with enteric temp 103o. Poor Herbert - he isone of the finest officers that ever breathed, (I wishwas only equal to his shadow) and his luck his beenpretty miserable. There is a chance of it being only"gastric floo" but the doc. thinks it means a trip toAussie instead of France in any case- & as his majorityhas not yet been confirmed he may have to revertto captain again.By the way my captaincy has been recommendedso now I am "pukka".Thank you for that parcel - it was fine in thisdesolate region for once more we're in Asia- & ina most miserable hole E of the Canal. Herbert & I had not taken any leave for over 2 mnswe were letting it accumulate & meant to explore Egypttogether - but now my luck is out - as no-one couldreplace Herbert as a comrade. We intended to go upthe Nile to Luxor - a most interesting & expensivetrip- but this jaunt will have to drop now.Perhaps I will get to Cairo for a day or two - but Ithink I will let my leave grow till I get to --------when I'll get a week off & cross over to see Boltons.unless as I expect we're given a big job as soonas we get there. It is nearly 5 months since wesmelt powder - & its about time we started the secondround. We got some 'wasters' who were left behind bythe other battalion - & these started to play the goat -but we hit back quick - The Aust. govt. is being savedthe bother of paying about 200 to 15 men - (all in 1 day)& this excludes imprisonment & hard labor - so this "nimblecrowd" found us a hard hearted & "hit hard & often"set of officers in this Battn. We're not a S. School sowe are kicking out all the bad eggs - as we don't meanto be disgraced in France - so about a boat load [[unit?]]be sent back - discip., unfit, & CD. casesJust about a year since I left Millicent last & it is a year.since we were together in Adelaide. Harry mentions ina letter he's sorry he won't see me at Easter - but I hopeit will be my luck to have him meet me at the Station someday. Rollo. Badge of 50th