Author: Harold Edwin Salisbury Location: TEL EL KEBIRDate: 1 March 1916 Nationality: Australian Text: As I have been foretelling, great alterations havebeen made in our Army - it has doubled its number ofunits - & now we form 5 Divisions - & with the N.Z.have two complete Army Corps of Infantry. Of coursewe have not yet been trained as such - but the movementtowards reorganization is well under way, with theresult that in common with other veteran battalionsthe 10th has been split. In our Battn. there wasnot much heartburning on leaving - except the loss ofthe old number and name. - B. was such animpossible C.O. , that no one had any love for him.The 50th has the better half of the officers of the 10th.The men are about equal - and the N.C.O.s are notquite up to the old gauge. Yesterday we recd. the11 & 12 Rfts . for the 10th to make up our strength.-& their N.C.O.s retain their stripes - which is rather aninjustice to the Anzac N.C.O.s who have been inmany cases superseded. I am going to run an N.C.O. classin order to get things A1., so that they may improve.On Parade ground work of course the new N.C.O. maybeat the Anzac men - but on Service give me theman who earned his stripes at Anzac - hell do me,so you can understand my sympathy for them.It is hard luck to see men who did not enlist tillcomparatively lately - stuck up over ones head. I'm acting O.C. of C. Company - a most arduous job atthe present time - tons of work to be done - but it's being done- and we are gradually getting normal out of chaoticconditions. - but there is always the prospect of somecapt from the 2nd Div, being bumped in on top of me.The 32nd Battn are lying not far from here - it's a compos.of S.A. and W.A. - & Coghill has already made it pretty hotfor some officers, who were well known in S.A. by reportas not being quite the most energetic. Cog. won'tstand any loafing - hence his stirring up methods.Result some have had the "preposterous cheek" toapply for transfers to a battalion like this which ismore than half Anzac - but these "hyper-super-dinks"of the 32nd have colossal cheek. It's rough that menwho have only just enlisted - (Sept & later) who havehad no active service - can apply to transfer to usafter our whack of hardships & active service - andthe Battn will be ruined if such transfers are madeWe are awaiting the next few days' results verykeenly, & great will be the row if we're superseded,I ought to get my Captncy. altho' we don't know yetwhat other officers are coming to the Battn. Hurcombeis O.C. Major Jacob 2/ in Com, Loutit Adj - MouleQ.M., while Seager, Herbert, Hancock, Wilton, Fowler,Smith, Dryden, Clark & myself have come from the 10th.Rowe of 79th is in 51st (Adj) - & Lorenzo D.S.O. is O.C. 49th. Rollo.