Author: Charlie Fry Location: EnglandDate: 5 February 1918 Recipient: Miss Allen Nationality: British Text:Dear Miss AllenYour very welcomeletter of 31st Oct has just arrivedand I was very pleasedto receive it, and I trustthis answer will find yourmother & self in the best ofhealth.I am very very sorryto know you have receivedsuch cruel news anddeeply sympathise with youin your great loss. May theknowledge that your brothersdied doing their most sacredduty bring your mother &self some measure of comfortrest assured, dear friendthat both are safe at restwith our beloved Master andthe memories of by-gonehappiness will help youboth to bear your greatloss.I will do my verybest dear friend to giveyou some information ofthem, and have alreadymet one man who knewyour elder brother, andfrom what he says, he wasvery popular with everyone. All he could tell me only confirms the news youalready have. I will do mybest to try and get youa photo of their grave.Yes it is a pleasureto be back in civilizationonce more, but times arevery hard just at thepresent time. You have everyreason to be proud of Australia,which is I believethe finest country in theworld. and we can drawsome comfort in the knowledge that all our dearones live in a land ofplenty and have no fearof a shortage of food.Here in this country it isterrible and it is pitifulto see women and childrenstanding for hours in frontof shops only to be told thatthey can get nothing. Manya man & woman in Englandtoday goes to work hungrybut they tighten their beltsand carry on in such a wayas to show they are determinedto go in and win at all costs.As you say it doesappear that some of the peopleover here have a liking forour soldiers for I believeover 8,000 of our boys havebeen married. For my partMiss Minnie I think they areeasily pleased. and when my time comes I am fussyenough to want a littleAustralian Girl, that isif there is one who is nothard to please. However wecannot complain about thetreatment we have receivedfor it has been of the best.I think I am gladto hear you kept clear ofthe conscription issue asit is a very far reachingquestion. One volunteer isworth a dozen conscripts andif the voluntary system hasfailed I am of the opinionthat those who are in authority are to blame. When it isall over the men who haveserved will come into theirown, if everyone is as stauncha soldiers friend as youappear to be.You have asked mea very hard question toanswer, about the lonelysoldier but I will be ascandid as possible aboutit. Now in England I dobelieve it is only a farce, asthe idea was I believeoriginated for men who hadno relations or friends inAustralia and most of men who came under thatheading were natives of thiscountry. Now that they arein their native countryit does sound funny to callthem lonely soldiers doesnt itwhen as a matter of factthey are better off thanthe average Australian.But the boys on the desertare totally different and Iam sure the lonely soldiersis in fact a reality in thatpart of the globe, and I canassure you that your sistersletters will not only be welcomebut appreciated. I hope youwill continue to write tome, although I am nowin Blighty for I am not oneof the natives of Blighty buta dinky die Australian I am afraid I haveexcelled myself in the matterof writing, but that comes ofbeing very interested inthe work in hand. Stillbefore closing I must tellyou about the latest air-raid which was a very seriousaffair.Well it happenedlast Monday week and therewere two attacks on the onenight, one early in the eveningand the other aboutmidnight. There were terriblescenes. Men women andchildren rushing & tearingin all directions for shelterIn one crowd alone 17 peoplewere trampled to death. Inanother place a bomb droppedon top of a building that was crowded with people. It wastotally wrecked and manywere buried under the debrisanother bomb dropped on asoldiers home. Killing hiswife & five children. The fearof the London people is pitifulto see. and it is hard torealise that nothing canbe done to prevent these raidsAltogether 54 people were killedand over 170 injured. Whata God-send it is to us thatAustralia is so far removedand safe from these murder...attacks.Now I must closeand I hope you willforgive me for inflictingthis on you. Many thanksfor all your kindness. andwith the best of good wishes and kindest regardsI will say Good bye andremainVery Sincerely YoursCharlie Fry. Y.M.C.AWITHTHEAUSTRALIAN IMPERIAL FORCE.No. 232 Pte E.C FryArmy Vety CorpsA.I.F.