Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 12 January 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo.Tuesday, January 12, 1915. My Lovely wife,It just struck me, I put noopening address in the last letter.I always leave it till last as younever know who might see it but Iforgot this time.I have just calculated that yesterdayyou probably received my firstletter since reaching Cairo. It seemsa terrific time & then another 3weeks of more before I can get areply, oh dear it is heartrending.The lucky five were paraded beforethe Brigadier, Col. MacLagan, thismorning at least only four sawhim as that beautiful beastMajor B4 refused to recommendSmith. He is in my opinionan unforgivable sneak & dog.Let me try to explain. LastWednesday our leave day Smith& Fisher were late getting innot a very serious offence. If you get caught it never means morethan 2 days C.B. unless a frequentoffender. The passes did not comein from the outer guard untilyesterday & B4 crimed them & gaveFisher & a lot of others in the samebox 44 hours C.B. To Smith whohappened to be an hour later thanthe others on a good excuse, hegave 7 days CB: an outrageouspunishment considering it wasa first offence. His object wasto make the crime recorded, thatis, anything over 2 days goes intoyour book & is entered on yourdischarge. Why he has sucha set on Mickey is hard to imagineThe only conclusion we can cometo is that it is he harboursresentment for Smith gettingleave at Morphetville over hishead. Last night B4 told the5of us for Brigade Parade at 8.30today. When we were lined up before the Colonel preparatory to goingbefore the Brigadier Beevor saidhe could not recommend Smith.Of the lot of us he is easily the most likelyto make a good officer. easily Why he couldn'tdidn't tell Smith beforehand hewas going to block him, brandshim as a sneak. It won't stopthere however. We saw Lieut TalbotSmith & Cap Nott who both willspeak to the Colonel & adjutant& I wouldn't be surprised if B4got into hot water. He will certainlylose all the little popularityhe has seeked since we left S.A.There were half a dozen othersfrom the battalion went up tothe Brigadier with us & aboutthe same number from the9th 11th & 12th. He saw us separatelyand asked us all sorts of questionsMy age may go against me, 21is the best age. Blackburns LL.B.will probably pull him through.I know no more of my chance than I did on Sunday. As faras I can gather from Col MacLaganthe commissions are fore the secondmillion of the Imperial Spring Army.He laid stress on the informationthat there was no guarantee ifsuccessful they would see the frontThey might be in garrison or sittingin an office all through the war.It goes against the grain a bit.If it had not been for you I shouldhave refused point blank to goon with it. I feel like a coward.Thursday. We have been at the rangesall day to-day. They are three miles outquite a long march in the desert.We started at 7 AM, that meantbreakfast at 6.15 just as the sunwas rising. The range was only30 yards but there were very smalltargets. I did rather well. The first5 rounds were group firing that isall shots within a 2 inch radiusI got them within 1 inch The secondtest was 10 rounds quick firing in which I scored well. The thirdwas 5 rounds at a head & shoulderstarget 1/2 inch across. You can hardlysee this at 30 yards but I managedto fluke 2 bulls & 3 inners. It tookthe two companies who went out,until 6 o'clock to finish, which wasgood going as there were only 24targets to fire at. The hours marchback at dusk was quite pleasantA company did pretty well onthe whole.The weeks seem to have alteredtheir commencement from Sundayto Wednesday, mail receiving day.I received your letter of Dec 17 enclos-ing a letter from Owen. His was chieflya letter of a private nature( that makesyou curious). He tried for a vacancyin the Light Horse whilst on aholiday in Sydney but failed. Heknew 6 men at Cocos. The one thatsent out the S.O.S. signals wasPercy Croft of Adelaide Your letterwas a dear. You can't imagine attack being made on Egypt shortlyor not at all, but what I believeis that transport difficulties makeanything like that quite impossibimpossible. They would leave theirlines of communication liableto be cut by a small force to saynothing of the possibility of anarmy leaving Turkey at thepresent juncture. When Germany'sspies failed to blow up the canalher plans on Egypt were finished.Saturday Afternoon What a day wasyesterday. The English mailarrived with your letters of Nov19th & 27th (2) including Mollies,one from Linda and a Henleyprogramme & results from Feo. There was one from Gay Burnsfirst. I got it just after comingin. I had just opened it & seenfrom whom it had come, whensomeone said, "There's some Adelaidenurses." I looked round & therewas Gay within 6 yards of me with two other nurses. Theletter was written in the RedSea 4 days previously & postedin Alexandria on the 14th whenthe day after the Kyarra got in. She hadcome up for the day with allthe other nurses & had come outto Mena in the hopes of seeingthe Gordons & me. After a chatI got Jack Gordon & we went asfar as the main ground justnear Mena House. She said shewould write to you. I am enclosingher letter as it may interest you.When I got back I got your lettersI can't think how many timesI have read them over. If youonly knew what enjoymentI get out of them you wouldnever tear any of them up. Don'tbe worried about them takingup too much room, my kit bagwill hold any amount. I amnot sure whether that the last budget accountsfor all the back letters. In the letter of Dec 17 you say"I did go to Marjorie Pybus'swedding after all" There is nothingapropos of that in any previousletter. The dates however arejust about consecutive allthrough, so perhaps it does notmean anything.Kiss Molly for me & tell her Iwill come back as soon asI can. That cutting which saysthe officer's mess is at theMena Hotel, Cairo is funny.Headquarters Staff of the Divisionis quartered at Mena House whichis also the base hospital.We have all heard of Snowgetting 5 years which serves himright though I think he musthave been hard pressed. We haveheard of rumours of Kuhuel && von Doussa being in troubleI can't understand about Lex He isgenerally very good at answeringletters. I have always felt pleased that I bought that rug It is becauseyou get so much pleasurefrom it. My handkerchiefsare lasting out all right. youare a darling to spend so muchtime on the new ones.Thos. Lindsay was brought veryforcibly to my mind the otherday. It is not often I see alooking glass but in at thephotographers I got a shockto see how red my embryomoustache looked. I felt delightedafter the first surprise was over.I know you wont believe me soI will try & send it to you whenI shave it off.Nothing more to report aboutthe commissions. We haveheard absolutely nothing, norhas the Colonel sent for Smithyet.Now for a bit of interestingnews. Phil. Robin is to bemarried tomorrow. Phil. kept it quite to himself but fromone or two suspicious happeningsI jumped to conclusions 3 daysago & tackled him with itWhen on active service youhave to get permission fromh.q. before being married.The Colonel was very goodgiving the use of the officers'mess for the ceremony & 2days leave (all he could.) toPhil. They are being married thereas it would necessitate a delayof 3 weeks if outside the camp.Lieut Lance Lewis of the Light Horseis to give the bride away & MickeySmith is to be best man. OnlyBlackburn, Fisher, Jose, Stokes,Gordon, Major Beevor, the Colonel,Les Canaway in the AMC (Philscousin) & myself are invited.Smith has this minute shownme a receipt he has written outfor any money Phil owes himas a wedding present. Phil had to borrow about a tenneras he has not been able to getsome money he had sent toLondon yet. It is very kindof Smith I think. We have nothad time to get Phil. a presentyet. Olive Haines may probablybe bridesmaide She is a nurseon the Kyarra to and may notbe able to get up tomorrow.I don't remember telling youthe bride's name. It isHoneywill. They are h.a. people& have been travelling inEngland some few years tho two years.I haven't seen her for 3 or 4years & have forgotten whatshe looks like. I will tell youall about the wedding tomorrow.The company are on leaveto-day but I did not go into Cairo. I asked Phil to getthe photos so they may beout in time to post tomorrowunder separate cover I am posting you a couple of cuttingswhich may interest you & anew view of Cairo. I don't knowanything of the part it was takenfrom but it gives you a slightidea of the size & style of archi-tecture. There was another cuttingI have mislaid of Sir Geo. Reidsfarewell letter to the Aus Troops.I won't trouble about it asit is sure to have been cabledin full. As a letter I have seldomread its equal. It meets everyevery requirement shows theutmost tact & not overburdenedby a word.By the bye how do you likethis idea of carbon letters? Ithelps me a lot. There are only60 pages in this book.Major Brand was talking to usthe other day in the desert. Amongother things he said we were notto describe what we were doingin the way of drill in our letters There was no talk of censorshipat present but if too much inform-ation was published in the papersthe censor would be used. Thereis nothing significant in it butdon't wonder if I do not say anythingmuch about our work. We willprobably be going on a routemarch one day next week. It isonly a few minutes before lightsout so I will say good night darling.Every night when I have turned inI smoke a cigarette & think hard ofyou. I don't remember when I havegone to sleep without thinking ofyou. I enjoy that half hour nearlyas much as receiving letters.Sunday Evening What a day!Charles Garvice is not in it withromance; but before I get onto the wedding. After church paradethis a.m. we had a review of asort. General Birdwood & staffposted themselves on the waydown from the sand hill on which the 3rd Brigade hold theirchurch services We marchedpast in lines of platoons, thatis about 30 abreast in file. It wasnot too good the sand beingdifficult to keep a line on.We had just time to tidy ourselveup before the great event at11.30. Mrs & Miss Honeywill werebrought out by Lieut Lance Lewis& had the use of Major [[B4?]]. tentto do any necessary [[?]]. Theofficers mess was set out withchairs just like a church.Phil had a new tunic & puttieswhich gave him a smartappearance. The bride hadsome sort of a grey travellingdress with a patent sort oftailboard cut very neatly &a smart white felt hat cockedon one side in French style.She is short & slight & notbad looking. Mrs Honeywillis a fine sport. She is onlyNellies step mother you knowNearly all of the officers attendedand only the privates I mentionedbefore were inside. Outsidewhen the news got roundthe crowd gathered miraculous& before the service was throughwere blocking up all the entrance.The parson was Archdeacon RichardChaplain of the 35th BrigadeMickey made a tip top entranceCorporal [[?]]trobe [[?]]Register staff was there takingnotes for the Register where youwill see a full account. Itis necessary to explain somethingbefore I tell you of the joke ofthe day. The punishment of C.B.(confined to barracks) entails thefollowing punishments besides whatis conveyed in the name. Between4.30 & 5 all defaulters have to dopack drill. Between 7pm & 9.30pm they have to report halfhourly at the guard tent. A special bugle call is blowneach half hour as a warningthe words of which are 'You can be adefaulter as long as you likeas long as you report every timeAll the bugle calls have wordsto them as 'Come to the cookhousedoor boys', 'Pick 'em up Pick 'emup hot potatoes, hot potatoes."After the service was over andthe couples health just beforeabout to be drunk the defaultercall was blown. There wasa roar as we had taken careto spread the news among theofficers that Mickeywas C.B.Mrs Honeywell asked the Colonelin a letteryesterday to try and givewe few leave for to- day to goCairo for lunch or the weddingbreakfast (whatever youlike tocall it.) which he did but beforeI get onto that. They had awedding cake which Phil cutwith the Colonel's sword while we pelted them all withrice & rose petals. We all hada special shot at [ B 40?] baldhead with the rice. After thespeeches there was a surprisewhen we got out. Half thedivision must have been crowdedbetween the 200 yards from theofficers mess to the road.The band were going for allthey were worth & a guard ofhonour was formed with fixedbayonets by A Company. All arrarranged while the servicewas going on as that wasonly when the news got abroadthe cheers were tremendous.Off the bridal party went ina taxie not before they werebailed up by numerous amateurphotographers. We followed alittle later. The menu cardI enclose explains the luncheonIt was one of the best I haveever eaten. I forgot to tell you Sandy Melbourrne is aCaptain in the 9th (Queensland).Phill knew him fairly well soinvited him to the service &breakfast. He doesn't seem asbad as I expected from yougirls' opinion. Afterwards wesat round & chatted untill about4 when the pair drove off on theirhoneymoon of 2 days to a healthresort about 15 miles out wherethere is a good hotel. We allsaid goodbye to Mrs Honeywell& went round the city. The newplaces of interest I saw to daywas one the old massive gatesof Cairo right the other side.It was a drive of about amile. Coming back we caughta glimpse of the Sultan motoringHe does not look so weak asone would think from hisphotographs. The photos werenot ready. I saw the proofbut could hardly recognise myself. I am sure you willbe disappointed. They will beready next week. Nevermindthe next ones will be better.Lance Lewis told me the Kyarranurses are all to be stationedin Egypt. Some at Mena othersat the different encampments.Well dear there is nothing moreI can think of to tell you.We are going out shooting againtomorrow. This with the routemarch may mean somethingchange soon. A month onthe canal would give me achance to save some money.Cairo is a terrible place forrunning away with the cash.It is close up to mail closingtime. I envied Phil mightily today. I wish you were here darlingGoodnight loveYour loving husbandTom.