Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 3 January 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp.Cairo. January 3rd, 1915. My Dear Sweetheart,I have left writing to you until Sunday afternoon thisweek. We have had a busy week, no holidayon New Years Day, Sir Geo Reids review & thenew company formations. No Australianletters are to hand. I am not surprisedas from your 5 Nov. letter I gatherthat no mail was to leave the followingweek. I had a double surprise howeverin letters from Stewart & Aunt Nellieor Eleanor or whatever her name is, MrsDick Champion I mean. She wrote ageneral letter & very kindly offered tosend anything I wanted in the way ofsocks, body belts etc. Thanks to you I haveeverything I can possibly want though.It is a very nice letter. She mentionsthat Mr & Mrs Fallon called before leavingin the 'Osterley'Here is an extract from Stewarts letter'I'm shortly going to desert & make for a cavalry regiment....I can't stick beingout of the biggest battle in history....what about your half section, has he gone too?"not a word about the last line to anybody.I wish I had half his warlike spirit.He is very bitter against the rebel Boers& German atrocities. I like Stewart,though if we had been contemporariesa century or so ago I would have beenhis deadliest enemy.Well let me see what I can tellyou about the weeks doings.Sir Geo Reid reviewed the one half ofthe Division on Wednesday & theremainder including the 10th onThursday. The 8 or 9 thousandmade some show I can tell you.We formed up in close order whilehe made a short speech. We thenmarched past in column of route(fours) & did it very well, so theytold us. The new General commandingthe Aust. & N.Z. Divisions was there. Burwood is his name I think.This appointment is interesting asthey make us an Army Corps though the total 30,000 is only about halfthe usual strength of a British one.This points to special work awayfrom the front. It may possiblymean Palestine. The Turks seemto have got themselves into amuddle & biding our time a chancemight come of annexing Palestinebloodlessly. Settling it with Jewsfrom Britain & Russia would possiblybe a popular move. Of course allthis is purely surmise. I knowno more than you what the intentionsof the authorities are.On New Years Eve we had some fun'Lights out' blew at 10:15 as usual& everything was quiet. About11.30 one or two tents collapsed ontheir occupants & the band started toquietly assemble. At midnightthere was a tremendous burst ofmusic from all over the camp.More tents collapsed and down wentthe canteen tent. The [[niggers]] insidewere moaning in a most heartrending way when it started to shake.Just before it finally subsided oneran outside frantically yelling'Poleece Poleece'. We started offon a procession with the band,armed with every conceivable pieceof metal capable of making a rowAlong the main road (named CanberraRoad) we marched, picking up bands& half clothed soldiers until we musthave been 2000 strong. At eachbattalion we would halt & play'Auld Lang Syne' joining handsall round. In the bright moonlightsome of the figures were looked fearful &wonderous wild in nothing but theirshort shirts. Our drum majorwas a 6 ft 6 Queenslander who wieldeda 10 ft flagpole without regard toinstruments heads or shins.Right along the road we wandereddown to the Artillery lines &Light Horse gathering fres reinforcements& dropping those whose spare clothingwas not proof against the cold the officers would come out & wishus a 'Happy New Year' & join inthe 'Auld Lang Synes' then on tothe hospital at Mena House togive the patients & General a treat.All the instruments not legitimatekept quiet there, which the patientsand General, no doubt appreciatedWe got back to our lines about 2 o'clockDon't conclude from this descriptionthat it was a shickers parade.Ninety five per cent were cold sober.Those who had had a drop were justin the right state to keep us amusedNew Years day we started on thenew Company formations.There are only 4 companies nowinstead of eight Major Beevor, CaptainsJacob, Herbert & Oldham have the commands& the other four captains are secondsin command Each company isdivided into 4 platoons undera subaltern & platoon sergeant & each platoon into foursections under a non. com. It ismuch easier for field work but harder for drill. We still haveHosking for subaltern in No 1 PlatoonSergeant Henwood is Platoon Sergeantwhile Jack Gordon is section commander& still retains his stripes. We joinedin with F Company so CaptainRedburg is second in command& Lieuts. Gordon Holmes & Talbot Smithhave charge of Nos. 3 & 4 Platoons.Dennis Jones, Rhodes, Crowhurst& Dukien all Adelaide Rowing Clubboys are in No 3 Platoon. Theaddress is now.No 1 Platoon, A Company;10th Infantry, 3rd Brigade;First Australian Division, EgyptThe sections are only half the sizenow and our old tent at Morphettvilleforms No 1 Section with a couple ofother very decent chaps. We willbe on Platoon drill for a week ortwo with a little break at a some shortranges now complete. They putwhat they call a morris tubein our rifle & small bullets are fired at a hundred yards.I was on Brigade Picquet last nightWe helped to surround the brigadeat 10.30 & were on until 2 1.30. Thiswas because the authorities thoughta more than usual had brokencamp. We were up before reveillethis morning so you can understandI am a bit tired.The camp is getting much morecomfortable. The mess houses arecompleted. There is plenty ofroom at the tables twice as muchas we had on the boat. I amwriting now at one. The Y.M.C.A.is complete with and a concert is givennearly every night. At the backof the lines there is quite a nativebazaar The two canteens where youcan purchase everything inthe grocery line, good lemonadeat 1 bottle which we prefer towaiting half an hour for beer. Ahaberdashery, drapery, ironmongery& postcard vendors shop combineda native tailor who puts pockets inyour trousers & cleans your tunicfor a bob each, a fruit shop &two barbers shops, where you geta decent shave for 1/2 piastre, whichis much preferable to shavingyourself. Natives wash your clothesfor pt. each piece which is betterthan doing it yourself. I washhandkerchiefs & socks myself asit is the same charge is made for them asfor a pair of khaki trousers.We were made happy to day bya present of a tin of chocolate& five cigarettes from the Australiansresident in G.B. A large pocket knifewith an attached tinopener wasalso given out. I will post youthe chocolate tin next week withperhaps a sample of the chocolatewhich is the best I ever tasted. Chapswere offering 20 piastres for thetins of chocolate for souvenirs tosend home.I went into Cairo on Wednesday I picked up some odd bits of Malteselace which I believe are genuineI have posted them with some otherthings. I won't tell you what I paidfor them, let me know what youthink they are worth. The squarething that looks like a D'Oyley isa handkerchief. The piece of crepewith a brass affair & brow band attachedis a thing the lower class of nativewomen wear as shown in the enclosedpostcard. It is called a 'Borkom'.They wear it from the time they are16 or eighteen. The necklet is ofgilded silver & Swiss enamel. Itis an exact imitation of one wornby an ancient princess. I will findout all about it when I go intothe museum where the original is.The tiny mummy case which opensis rather novel I thought. They wereall very cheap.Cairo only wakes up properly atmidnight so several of us wantedto see what it was like. We went to the 'Kursaal' a sort of Tivoli showwhere you can smoke & order drinkseverywhere. It The show is on from9.30 to 11.30 A . matinee is held from6.30 till 8. We had supper at aswell French Restaurant wheregirls in evening dress dance up &down the aisle at intervals. Anyof the diners can join in. Aftersupper we had a look througha couple of Dancing Halls. It isquite public. A lot of officers werepresent so we kept in the background.I am doubtful if we would havegone into the foreground if theyhadn't been there. Cairo is anaughty place alright. After astroll through the bazaarswe came home.It has been announced thatChurch is optional. Those whodon't want to go fall out atthe parade & have to clean upthe lines. This morning theMajor got a shock. The whole of the old A. Company fell out. He wasleft with only a few of the new halfof the company. It took us exactly5 minutes to clean up.I am not resigned about the lettersyet. It seems dreadful that I haven'theard anything practically, writtensince we left Australia. I wishI had never joined. Well I supposeit is no use running your headagainst a brick wall, but I do wishI could be in Adelaide if fora day only. I do hope you are notnot worrying dear. There is nodanger it is not that that hurts butI long to see you, feel you, hug you, tokiss you. I would make a wonderfulfuss over you now. Well we are upagainst it, so the less I we worrythe better. All the more wonderfulreunion. Thats the toast 'Here's tothe Re-union' Goodnight DarlingYour own loving boyTom.