Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 18 November 1914 Location: England Indian Ocean Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: England. Indian Ocean Wednesday November 18, 1914. My Dear Darling Wife, We left Colombo yesterday aboutmidday. I have been worried ever since.I gave a long letter I had written toa man who was just about sure tobe discharged & sent back to Adelaide.He was sent to the Orvieto to be examined,he had some growth in his throat. I believethey kept him there much to Dr Nott'ssurprise. Unless he had a chance of gettingthe letter ashore I am afraid you wontget it until you receive this. I amworried because you will be disappointedat the short bare note I wrote that hadto be censored & there will be quite 3 weeksto wait.It has been gloriously smooth. Theboat has not rocked a bit. The weatheris still hot. We get about in dungareesonly. I still have one of the best sleepingout places on the ship so I am better offthan most of the privates. My leg isnearly better I am sorry to say. There [[?]] only about 28 boats in thisdivision. We are hurrying on to coalat Aden while the rest will be there whenwe are finished. They are mostly the onesthat coaled at Colombo.I would like to have landed there. It lookedvery pretty with so much green about.Nobody from the Ascanius was ashore at all.I can remember remember Colombo bestof all on the trip out. That was aboutthe time you spent most of your timesleeping & drinking. It was a very hotday & we went for a walk along aCinnamon Grove, saw several elephants& naked children and were intenselyinterested in the natives chewing betelnut.Some of the New Zealanders were allowedashore we heard, but started upsettingrickshaws & generally painting the townred. A picquette was sent for & then everyavailable man to arrest the picquette.The poor beggars hadn't been on landfor 8 weeks. We have been very disappointed through not getting papers. All I haveseen since leaving Fremantle is a singlesheet published Monday night. A paragraphsaying that some trophies from theEmden were to be sent to the Federalcapital showed that you have evidentlyheard full particulars of that famousduel. The prisoners came into Colombowhile we were there. There were about400 of them on the Empress of Russiaor some Empress liner accompanied bya cruiser. We could not see them.Only 4 weeks gone since I last saw you.However I will last out till May I don'tknow. Oh how I long for a sight of you& how heavenly just one kiss would be.Well it's got to be faced so there's no goodlonging. I have to go & do the most distastefuljob of the lot now. The only thing Idetest & dread-washing clothes. I wouldsooner be a burglar than a washer woman.[*Friday Evening*] nothing much happened since I last wrote.I am still grieving about that unpostedletter.There are 10 N.Z. boats after all. They are all painted that leaden colouredgrey & being right back in the line, nearlyover the horizon, difficult to count.It was the first line of boats that stayedat Colombo the 10 headed by the EuripidesThey came in sight to-day. First ofall a wee thin line of smoke away backon the horizon just like you couldimagine the smoke rising from a cigarettehalf a mile away. Then a few knifeedges until they gradually took shape.They are accompanied by a warship.Before they had got up with us theAscanius forged full speed ahead with4 of the N.Z. boats & with the 'Hampshire'(the cruiser that has been with us fromColombo) We are gradually leavingthem all & I suppose hurrying onto Aden. W It is wonderful that alittle thing like speeding on shouldmake everybody pleased. There wasquite a stire of excitement. It maymean an extra day in one of themost disagreeable ports on earth, butnobody looks at it that way. I have been doing quite a lot of readinglately. We have a library on board withabout a couple of hundred novels. I haveread one each day since Wednesday.The first was 'Pole Baker' by Will. N. HarbenIt is rather nice & a book you wouldlike if you haven't read it. The secondwas Lewis Rand by Mary Johnson. Likemost of hers, it has a sad ending. Atone time I used to like books with sadendings but I don't now. There is toomuch tragic finishes in life withoutlooking for them in novels. The onefinished just now was The Dream Shipby Cynthia Stockley. I like it lessthan the others. What a goose Val is.A little explanation now & then wouldhave saved her them both a lot ofworry.If there is not too much delay this lettershould reach you just before Christmas.Oh how I want to be with you. I wantyou to write & tell me that on ChristmasDay you laughed more than any of them,talked more & [[?]] jollier than the lot. If you only can, it would be heavenlyfor me. If I could only think that youwere showing everybody how gay you can be,& not letting thoughts of my abscencetrouble you, it would be so much easierto bear. Will you?I have never thought of you so constantly& so often than since we left Fremantle, Evenreading makes no difference. Every fewminutes I have to put the book down& gaze at the sea & just think of you.Think how perfect you are, how womanly,how entrancing, how beautiful, loveable& how wifely. Even reading & I amconstantly weaving & comparing characteristicsof yours, trying to think whatyou y would do under the circumstances.Oh how I long to have you in myarms & hold you tight. I would neverlet you go again. I know you are lovingme darling & I am loving you, lovingyou more than I ever did before.What a time we will have when I comeback. I won't let you out of my sightfor a fortnight. I will follow you tothe [[?]] even. [*Saturday.*] I am quite anxious to tell you about a mostexciting half hour this morning. at 10 to 5 wewere awakened by a crunch & the shock ofa slight double collision. The siren soundeda couple of long blasts & the fire bell rang.When the fire bell rings orders are to gobelow to the troop decks fasten on life belts& await orders. As we have practised ita couple of times, so there was no confusion.I was asleep on the promenade deck as usual,& the shock awoke me. I thought at firstthat we had struck a mine, but quickly reasonedthat there was no explosion & b searched formy tobacco & pipe under my coat, which I wasusing for a pillow. Getting below withoutany undue haste, I got a lifebelt & yourphoto, & sat down with the rest. I must confessI felt a bit queer but don't think I showedit. Until we knew there was nothing veryserious the waiting was somewhat tediousand anxious. I suggested a game of bridgeThree were agreeable but we couldn't get a fourthBy that time we knew there was not muchdanger. We all filed on deck & took our position in close formation of foursAfter a wait of half an hour the buglesounded 'No Parade' & we were dismissedIt appears that the boat ahead of us, theShropshire stopped & either didn't give thesignal, or our fourth officer, who hadcharge, didn't hear it in time. We grazedher stern with our bow, knocked oneof her boats to bits & passed right onAs we swung one of our boats on thepoop deck (stern) was smashed & casta drift. A hole about 20 feet long & 18 inches 2 feetwide was knocked in our bow about 6 feetabove the water line. I believe two men onthe Shropshire were either knocked or jumpedoverboard. There are conflicting accountsas to their rescue. Nobody on the Ascaniuswas scratched though men had theirhammocks tied to the davits & rails that weretwisted & crumpled. The utmost orderwas kept throughout, it was more likea false alarm than a real one. TheHampshire was soon alongside. Theysteamed quite close just as the sun wasrising about 5.45 & the captain was very sarcastic "My congratulations to the officerof the watch. In my 30 years experienceat sea I have never known a shipto ram her leading guide." The poor officers.It will probably mean a court martial by theAdmiralty when we reach home & eitherhe or the Shropshires officer will sufferI expect repairs will be effected at Aden.Bugler Whitcombe showed a very fine exampleof presence of mind. He was sleeping belowon the troop deck when the first shock halfwoke him He reached over to his locker& getting out his bugle played the 'Stand Fast'which is always supposed to be playedh under those circumstances. It was heardnearly all over the ship. After playingit he asked what he had played, he wasn'tquite sure.[*Sunday*] Rather relieved when Battalion Orders cameout this evening. They are not going toCensor letters at Aden. We should reachthere Wednesday morning. No communicationis to be allowed with the shore. I don'tthink there will be a mail boat leavingthere for Australia until early next week As the mail closes at 8 p.m. on TuesdayI may will write again before leaving ifopportunity offers. I am still troubled.If the mail does leave soon after weget there & before the Orvieto arrivesyou may not get my last letter untila week after this. I think I had betternumber the letters to avoid confusionI will call this one No 2. The one thatshould have been posted at ColumboNo 1. The short censored note fromColombo is not worth numbering.No 3 I will either be posted from Adenor Port Said. We should sight SocotraIsland tomorrow morning. I can'tfind out anything about it nobodyseems to know much & I dont rememberhearing more than the name before.The 12 troopships & cruiser with ushave been pushing on at about 2 knotsfaster than the remainder. We coveredexactly 300 miles during the 24 hoursending at noon today. It still keepscalm although there is a little breeze.Flying fish have been plentiful the past couple of days. They are out ofthe sea quite a dozen yards sometimes.I have seen a couple of big fellows(about the size of a tommy rough) flyquite 30 yards.It appears that nobody fell off theShropshire, they only thought they hadfor about half an hour.In thinking things over I have cometo the conclusion that there was notvery much danger. If we had hit herfull on & our bows had crumpledup, only the forward bulkhead forecastle wouldhave filled Even if she had sunkjust about all of us would havebeen picked up in the calm seavery quickly by the scores of gigsthat would have been on the spotbefore the ship would have had timeto go under. Of course the 2000 aboardcould not possibly, get aboard ourboats which only provide for about400.There is a rumour that we may getsome letters at Aden. It will bequite exciting. How I long for a letter. I have read the ones I received atFremantle quite half a dozen times. [*Monday.*] Socotra was on our left at daylight thismorning. It must be a good way distance away& have some high mountains, we can justsee them in the light blue distance. I havemanaged to find out something about it.In 1834 the East India Company occupied itthen a formal British Protectorate was establishedin 1886. In return for a small subsidy theSheikh pledges not to cede the island to anyforeign power. The area is 1400 Sq miles &inhabited by about 12000 Arabs. It is 150 milesfrom Cape Gar Guardafui & about 500 fromAden The industries are mainly pastoralbut I think lot of indigo comes fromthere.We were in had the second typoid inoculationthe other day. There was no after effectthis time. I suppose we will be vaccinatedin the Red Sea. I suppose you wonderwhat part of the anatomy that is. I am enclosinga post card of theAscanius. I had a dozenprinted very cheaply on boardso that accounts for the shoddinessI sent the others to acquaintances allover the place. It is hard for me know what will be ofinterest to you. I don't want to bore youwith a lot of uninteresting details, so tellme exactly what you want to hear. [*?day*] I am on guard to-day. It is the first time[[?for around 3]] weeks. My sixpenny sore hadits advantages. I am sorry to say it hashealed. This morning I saw a most perfectsunrise. There was every shade & colourThe deepest vermillion it is possible to imagineto the lightest pink and all shades of blue. And all caused by our Mophetville Staplediet. What a moral. I am quite excited I haven't blown my nosefor about a month. Just think of it. I havenever experienced anything like that before.No cold & no dust is the reason I suppose.There is nothing more I can think of totell you except to wish to merriestof Christmases and the happiest of New Years.I will be kissing you for all I am worthon Christmas morning, your time, from 7 till8 o'clock Good night Darling Your every loving boy Tom. Give them allmy love &best wishes etc.