Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 19 February 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo.February 19, 1915. My Dear Little Girl,There seems something familiarabout the date to-day. I had almost forgottenbut & only remembered this afternoon when wecame in. Fancy me 29 It seems terriblyold. An interesting coincidence is thatto-day we complete six months service& are now all soldiers in the full senseof the word Until today we were onlyrecruits. All the Citizen Force boys inthis force will not be compelled to doany more, training in Australia; they have completedsix months continuous service. Thesubalterns who had not received theirsecond star were all promoted to firstlieutenants to-dayNo mail again this week. What aterribly long week it is now, only oneday in 14 to look forward to.I am not sure if a mail leaves fromhere this week. The papers publishno information & our brigade Post Officeknow nothing; they only make up themails & send them into Cairo on Monday where they are forwarded by at the firstopportunity. I believe there are only3 mails a week to Australia now butwhen they go I don't know.We have had quite an interesting weekof Brigade manoeuvres. It has been advancingattacks defences retirements & night work.Tuesday we had a light day & at 7 wewent out on an advance, attack and assaulton a position at 'Tigers Tooth' anoutcrop of several sharp pointed smallhills where the 3rd Brigade rangesare. The Brigadier gave us a verydifficult formation to advance with& we evidently carried it out to his satisfactionas he sent us in at 2 o'clockinstead of 6 as was originally intendedand said we had carried out movementsthat could only have been done bywell trained troops. Our manoeuvres areinteresting as we always have anenemy in the shape of flags whicheither represent a platoon or companyDifferent coloured flags representsuperior fire, equal fire, weaker fire,cavalry etc. Heliograph flashes representthe different kinds of fire by the enemy& kettle drum rattles, machine gun fire If it is an advance & a red flagshows, we cannot move forward untilsteps have been take to overcome itby moving in reinforcements & of coursethis must be done without weakeningany of the line sufficiently for theenemy to go pierce it. F Thursday& to-day the manoeuvres were carriedout on a new ground to us, theother side of the pyramids. It issimilar to the cam desert at onthis side except that it is not quiteso hilly. Yesterday we marched ingoing right alongside the Pyramids& past Mena House on to the camp roador 'Canberra St.' as it sign posts nameit.Next week we have Divisional Training& then I believe we slacken off a lot.We may have a four days bivouaclike the 1st Brigade; but nothing hasbeen rumoured about it. I don'tthink we are likely to move fromhere for sometime. There have beenthree cases altogether of smallpoxnone of them recent but I hardly thinkthey would move us until a quarantinetime had passed from the last case. Wednesday was our leave daybut all the Brigade had vaccinationparade. All who had not taken sufficientlyto show marks were done again. Thisis not really necessary but theyevidently were taking no risks. Iwas done again but up to now therehave been no signs. We were thelast company to go through at about3 o'clock. Poor Harry Nott lookedquite fed up, he had been at it from8 o'clock. We were then free to goto Cairo. I didn't find anything newSeveral of us had a bonzer dinnerat the Restaurant Parisien. We alwayshave afternoon tea at Groppis or Saultotwo celebrated 'Confiserie Cafes' I thinkI told you about the wonderful creationsyou select yourself from the glass casesbefore you go into the tables. Wednesdaywas evidently not reckoned as a holidayas we are to get from 10 to 10:30 tomorrowLast Post has gone so I may not be ableto continue until Sunday.Saturday afternoon I have not been intoCairo after all 'mafeesh filoose', no money, orat least not enough to make itworth while. I have found from experience. that you need at least 50 piastres toenjoy yourself in town. Instead I wentfor a trip round the Pyramids. BlackburnJack Gordon & I climbed Cheops. It isnot extra hard. The view is magnificentOne side you see the Nile Valley, fertileas any land can possibly be, aboutturn, and nothing but the desert.I can't imagine a more vivid contrastThe whole camp is in view from thetop and very regular and large itlooks. The biggest surprise was theresult of some excavations betweenthe [[triangle symbol for pyramid]] & the camp that we cannot seefrom the ordinary level as there seems to be sand hills rightround it. I believe they are all ancienttombs & graveyards. An American syndicatehave the rights & as it is all out of boundswe have not been able to visit them.Sunday Evening. On Saturday I wen afternoon I hada swim in the baths & then went outto the Heliopolis Sporting Club with othersto get some Crosses. A Lancaster TerritorialRegiment had lent us 15 sticks so we wentout to get them. This Regiment the 6th hasabout 60 Lacrosse players. and Manchesteris very strong in the game and most ofthe best players enlisted in a bunch. We got wind of Lacrosse being played inEgypt by the notice in a paper of a match.We promptly wrote a letter to them askingthem for a loan of sticks which they werekind enough to do. They were very anxiousto meet an all Australian team as theyhad practically an all England team.We got their letter on Thursday so posteda notice in the mess sheds straight awaycalling a meeting to form a 10th BattalionLacrosse Club. Fifteen turned up. CaptainNott was elected to the chair. The Officerselected were Patron Col. Weir. (We thoughtof electing Lord Kitchener) President Cap.Nott; Vice presidents Major Hurcombe &Lieut Eric Talbot-Smith (an old player) Captainyour humble servant Vice Captain Serg GordonSecy & Treas. RH White and the usualcommittee of 5 & selection committeeof 3. We arranged a match for to-daywith the 9th (Queensland.). It tookplace this afternoon on a ground along-side the train terminus. They were veryweak but had several Victorians tohelp them. The Terriers had arrangedto come out at 3.30 with 9 moresticks to make up the 24 needed. Theydid not arrive until after 4 so we started with 7 on our side & 8 on theirs. We quicklythrew 6 goals so I got our chaps to hangoff a bit & give them a chance At half timethe scores were 8-4. Before we startedthe rest of the sticks arrived so we bothhad full teams. We finished at 11 to 1.For next Thursday we are trying to arrangea match with the Victorians & nextSaturday the 3rd Brigade V Manchesterif we can get leave. I expect I willbe very stiff to-morrow but I don't feeltired yet. There was a chap from the3rd came over to see me to-day aboutlacrosse matters Incidentally he wasable to give me some very usefulinformation about those commissions.He has a friend, a major, attached toDivisional Headquarters The informationis as follows. A batch of 42 Australianswill go to England within a fortnightHe is one of them A second batch of aboutdouble the number a little later & thena third. He is finding out to-morrowif our 5 are among any of them. Hethinks he remembers Blackburns namein the second.Our little crowd will be getting smallerPhil Robin was appointed a lance corporal in No 4 Platoon Mickey Smith willprobably be transferred to a positionon Brigade Headquarters which LieutHolmes got for him recommended him for I don't know exactlywhat it is but at anyrate he willbe pleased to get out of Beevors clutchesI think you know we arranged to keeptogether & not take any non coms positionsbut only commissions if offered. Ofcourse this thing the 5 of us put in forbroke all that up so Phil & Mickey werefree to put in for their positions.A couple of photos were taken to-day& if they are any good I will try & getcopies for you. I expect there will beplenty in the S.A papers about the matchto-day as Rhodes Du Rien & the othershave all been writing long accounts ofit some of which are sure to find theirway into the papers.You will have to be satisfied with ashort letter this week as there seemsto be a lack of news & as I want towrite several more letters to-night.Everything is all right darling. I stillthink of you all day long. The eveningsare the best as when I am lying in bedI always smoke a cigarette & think hard ofyou. Good night my darling Angel. Yours for-ever Tom.