Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 18 December 1914 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp Cairo. Friday, December 18, 1914. My Darling Angel, It is difficult to imaginehat Christmas is only a weekoff. I can hardly realise thatit is December even. Out tentis going to have a gay time. Wehave put in 10 p.t. (2/1[[?]]) eachfor a real blow out of TurkeyPlum Pudding etc. in additionto any special rations we willget. Everything is getting alongfamously. We have a tent to about15 which serves to keep our kitin & to sit round of an evening. As we prefer to sleep outside thereis not much inconvenience.The food is much better thanat Morphettville. Our 6 a day messallowance goes to buy Salmon, Sardines,Milk, Butter, Cheese, Eggs, Herringsin Sauce, etc. quite enough fora comp good meal a day. The routine is much moreinteresting, Breakfast at 7Reveille at 6, early morning parade6.30 breakfast 7.30 parade 8.45then we march a couple of milesinto the desert & do battalion drill,company drill, semaphore signalling,entrenching, bayonet fighting,ceremonial drill, general field work& extended order drill. Sham fights& shooting will come on later Iexpect. We take our lunch withus & start back at 2 or 3 o'clockdoing battalion work on the way.We are dismissed about 3or 4 o'clock. Every eight days the company getsfrom 2 till 10 leave. Our turn comesagain to-morrow. At 5 we havedinner except & then the rest ofthe evening to ourselves exceptwhen on guard or piquet workwhich happens about once a week I am getting as hard as nails. I could sleep on a barbed wirefence. The desert is very hilly 8 GENERALS ATFUNERAL Eight generals will actas pall-bearers tomorrow atthe military funeral ofMajor - General C. H.Brand.They are Lt.-Gen. SirSydney Rowell, Maj.-Gen.C. H. Simpson, Maj.-Gen.J. S. Whitelaw, Maj.-Gen.S. H. Porter, Maj.-Gen. S. F. Legge, Maj.-Gen. R. J.H. Risson, Maj.-Gen. B. M.Morris, Maj.-Gen. E. J.Milford.The insignia bearer, whowill carry Gen. Brand's decorations,will be Major G.C. Batchelor, who servedon General Brand's staff inthe First World War. [*3rd Aug 61. Aged 87. all sand, stones & rock butnot bad to march on. I canthelp remarking on the change of inour officers since the be embarkationB4 & the others are still strictbut much more in reason &far easier to get on with. Theother companies say the sameof theirs. Perhaps it is becausethey have more bosses too. You seethe Colonel has the Brigadier toboss him now & he also hasto obey orders from divisionalheadquarters. The brigadier, Col.McClaggant the brigade major, MajorBrand, have impressed us verymuch, the little we have seenof them. The men would do anythingfor Major Brand. He is a wonder. Up at 5.30 & doing Grand Roundsat midnight, strict to a degree,but so reasonable & gentlemanlyabout it all.They are erecting great messrooms for us all. It looks as as if there will be plenty of room.The nights are fairly cold & aboutevery other morning there isa mist which clears up quickly Fruit is fairly cheap I have boughtgood sized sweet oranges 4 fora half piastre, Dates 1 piastre a poundfigs & apples about Adelaide prices& water melons of 16 pounds 5 piastres.We have only got a third ofour back pay so far whichkeeps us from sneaking intoCairo oftener than that we wouldlike to. We are only to get 2/-a day while in Egypt.After being on guard we do notgo out with the parade but havethe morning on quartermastersfatigue, getting stores from thedepot. As they are not workingour horses yet, we use nativetrollies & camels with a soldierin charge of each one. It isgreat fun. We have picked upa few arab Arabic words & with the help of a few forcibleAustralian expressions manageto keep the niggers from goingtoo slowly. It is good fun ridingthe camels back. The afternoonwe have to ourselves. I was onthis Wednesday so a couple ofus went into Cairo on a couplesome passes we had securedthe previous evening on guard. We didn't have much moneybut managed to enjoy ourselves.I saw a most wonderful of wardrobeat a Greek art & curio dealer's.It belonged to the late Khedives fatherthe Johnny who bankrupted thecountry. It is beautifully carvedin Arabic stile & inlaide withivory It is all in movable bits fastenedwith wood. This is to prevent warpingthrough the extremes of temperaturein this country. The price is 200.There were all sorts of chinaJapanese art & Arabian art, everythingof the very best work & all expensive You would have gone mad ifyou had been there. The Greekwas very interesting He was welleducated & had been throughthe Balkan war. His father hadthe shop before him. The Khedive& all the princes, Lord Kitchener,& lots of European and Easternpotentates were customers ofhis. There are lots of curioshops where they sell mummies,scarabs & everything connectedwith ancient Egypt.The Museum of Egyptian Antiquitiesis a wonderful place I believe,but I haven't had time to gothrough it yet. I even haven'tclimbed the Pyramids. I maygo up next Sunday. EverywhereI go I can't help thinking howmuch I want you to be hereto see it all with me. We willhave to manage to visit Egyptto-gether somehow.The sunrises & sunsets are gorgeous. It is useless trying todescribe them. I never wasgood at descriptions, but evena poet would fail at this.It is heartrending about theletters. Nearly 2 months sincewe left Fremantle & not a letteryet. I know there are 7 on theway somewhere, but goodnessknows where they are. Weare told we will get the Orsovamail Tuesday, that is one directfrom Australia. The previousmails are probabably on theirway from or to London.To-day Egypt was proclaimed aBritish possession. There wasto have been a grand parade oftroops but which we hear hasbeen postponed. The papers havenot been saying much about it.I expect we will have a reviewwhen Sir George Reid & the N.Z.High Commissioner arrive. Sunday 20th. There has been noexcitement about the Proclomation& the appointment of the new SultanThe only trouble likely to ariseis from the Nationalist Party& a section of the Liberalists. As the mostdangerous of them have beencleared out of the country &their propoganda not beingpopular nothing is to be seen ofany dissatisfaction.I went into Cairo yesterday & had astroll round Old Cairo & other placeswe had not seen before. One longstreet in Old Cairo was quaint, across between an Arabian bazaar& a semi modern street. It was quiteEastern. Every decription of shop wasthere, a little larger & better thanthe Arabian bazaar shops. We werenear a school when the boys werecoming out. What a picture they madein their loud European suits &fezs. The educated Egyptian looksvery respectable, some dark & some fair. I have seen some that wouldpass for fair Europeans. We hada look at some Art Curio shopsin the centre of the European quarter.I could have spent a hundredpounds in five minutes & notregretted. The finest & gaudiestsilks; brassware you couldn't describe;gilded silver charms, necklets & curios;exact imitations of ancient princessescharms in the Egyptian museums.Lotus blooms and scarabs in the mostperfect enamelware. Ash traysof beaten brass in Egyptian hieraoglyphics& Arabic; lamps, tea sets, coffee sets& everything you could think ofin brassware that beat any Benaresware you ever saw. I can quitesee where my back pay is going.Great joy this morning. Thereis to be a mail to-morrowfrom England, the first lot thatleft Australia after us. Thenanother that left 3 weeks ago,on Tuesday. I wont receives them until after this weeks mailcloses.In Cairo yesterday we saw a girlsschool out for a drive in abus. It was latticed right up & you couldonly see the tops of their heads. Therewere allEgyptianwith their veils. How would youlike to go to school in Cairo?I have forgotten when the birthdaysare. Let me have a full list willyou? I am sending you a paperwith the announcement of theProtectorate, they should be worthkeeping. There was to have beensome swearing in ceremony thismorning. I don't know whether anyAustralian troops were taking part.Eileen dear, it is so lonely. WhenI go into Cairo I can't get it out ofmy head thinking how you wouldlove to see everything with me.I thought I would get over it but itis getting worse. Goodnight darlingYour ever loving Tom.