Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 2 April 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Good Friday,April 2, 1915. My Dear EileenI shall have to apply forpermission to alter my birthday to April 1st never dreamt of getting such a mailin my life. It arrived the night before last & yesterday I got the pile. There were your 84 pages covering from Jan 31st to Feb 25th (perfectletters every one) two from mother one eachfrom Lex, pa, Linda, Tom, Freda, Feo, Mr Richardson(my old schoolmaster) & Mr Follen Bishop. Then therewere those very welcome knitted flannels, the Register& a Mail from Feo. Of course, the most surprisingnews of all was Feo enlisting I don't knowwhat to think of it at any rate I am glad in away. It is quite possible I may see himin a short while.I don't think the mail that closes to-daywill find a connecting one at Port Saiduntil the 14th so I am leaving replyingto the budget until next week. It takesme a couple of hours to read throughyours alone. It must have been a shock to hear of Phil Robin's allegeddeath. There was never anything wrong with himIt looks as if you had the same trouble with rumoursin Adelaide as we have here.The knitted flannels are the most useful thingsyou could have sent. I have been reduced tousing handkerchiefs which are no where near assatisfactory. You can assure Miss Bentley thescarf has been most useful. When it is notneeded for what it is intended, it comes infor an ideal hip cushion when sleeping on anythinghard.There has absolutely nothing happened of anyconsequence since I last wrote. We are stillgoing on in the same way. The crew is stillgoing & when the weather is too rough we have aholiday.Land & Water of Feb 27 contains a very good articleby Belloc on the duration of the war. It is the firstof a series.We are getting fresh meat now & a little jam sothings are beginning to look brighterThe censorship is still as severe as ever thoughit seems ridiculous in the face of informationwe have heard of being published in papers inneutral countries. Love to allYours ever,Tom.