Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: have been as near death as they are ever likelyto be. There is nothing to notice in anyaltered demeanor in the men except that theyseem a bit alter more light hearted. Of courseour individual chances fill our mindsforemost but when they are spoken aboutit is always in a joking spirit. PersonallyI feel exactly like I used to on the morningof any important boat race. Perhaps whenwe are creeping through the scrub or waitingto land the reality of our risk will come hometo usBlackburn & Jose have gone on the battle cruiser.Smith is not a scout now but will carry a flagto show the men of war where we are. Fisher willbe a connecting file so Stokes & I will be the onlyones of the old half dozen with the Coy.It is satisfying to know that Mjr Hurcombewill be back in charge of the supports.All lights will be out to-night so I will haveto close this up so as to get make sure ofgetting it in safe hands.I wrote you a really (last letter for a while) yesterday[*C11.*] It may only go the same time as this but thereis always the chance of this not reaching your Location: Mena Camp, Cairo.TuesdayDate: February 23, 1914.My Darling Little Wife,What a day oh what a day. Think,10 letters & 7 6 papers to-night! I can' t realiseit. And your wonderful letter It hasbeen well worth waiting a fortnight forIt is now just after 9 and it has been wasannounced 2 minutes ago that a mailis being closed for Australia at 10 - aFrench special I suppose. So don't expectanything much.I will have to leave answering yourletter until later in the weekThe letters were from you, & from Feo,Linda, Mother, Jack, Miss Hutchison,Frank Gunn, Cecil Oswald & Syd Middleton.The papers were 6 Mails from Feo. which camealtogether, but which he said in hisletter were posted each week, and a Bulletinfrom someone whose writing I can't recogniseThere are hundreds of Bullys about allwith that famous cartoon.Well to get on to the most excitingnews. We are off within a fortnightWhere to I cant tell. The Brigadier wouldn'tsay & they evidently want us to believe at 10 to-night We all land together in the weesma' oors on a spot near very close to where I have beentipping. The plan as much as we know of it& can guess is a marvel of ingenuity & strategyI hope to be able to tell you about it in No 20.There is no denying the fact that we will be onan extremely dangerous job With great luckthey may not discover us before morning& th Let us hope so. The knowledge we haveof the positions of the batteries & trenchesis remarkable It fills you with astonishmentIf the men of war settled all the batteries before weland it would give away our intentions; sowe have to settle a few of them with the bayonetbefore dawn. A Coy being in reserve to the 10thwon t see much of this unless the other Coys arehard pressed. We are steaming along at only7 or 8 knots. the Brigade boats being in lineescourted by 1/2 doz O.G. destroyers & the SwiftsureThey are careful for fear of submarines.Y A person dropped on this boat without previousknowledge would never hazard a guess thatby this time to-morrow the passengers would it is France but I have my doubtsThe news came yesterday evening.Of course there was excitement andcheers & bands The 9th & 11th are to goSaturday in advance the rest to followwithin a week or fortnight. There arethree four places we might go to. The PersianGulf , Syria or Palestine , France , or EnglandI hardly think the former, though we haveheard nothing from that force for some timewhich must mean that they are notstrong enough to take Bag dad or dontwant to , more probably the latter. SyriaI hardly think because of something MajorBrand said when lecturing another companythe other day. It was about the recentCanal engagement; when we had achance to settle the Turks completelybut were ordered not to do, for politicalreasons. I will tell you more about itnext letter. France it may be but theysay we are to be re-equipped whichcould be easier done in England aswell as transporting us with the othersTo day we have been practising billetting.Streets lanes houses shops etc weremarked out with flags at a suitableplace near Tigers Tooth and we were a couch for many a week or so.Some more mail came aboard to-day.A letter from Ron. Morgan was myquota. I got a great shock to hear read thathe heard Gordon Campbell was engagedThe sly beggar. I wonder if its true?I will enclose the letter but I daresayyou will find it very hard to decipherhe is such a bad writer. Ron is one ofthe whitest men I know.I will try & add some more to this to-morrow& that will be the last in this book. I amtaking the first duplicate book with me towrite on the back of the carbon copies. I havemade a little cloth writing case that will fitin my haversack without taking up much roomSaturday afternoon 24thApr. Here we are on ourway to the spot that is going to be a play a largefactor in the result of the war. We left MudrosBay at 2.20 & are due at Tenados or Imbros about8. C & B Coys with the regimental scouts were takenaboard the Prince of Wales this morning. The restof the battalion will be transferred to 2 TB.Ds marched in. There was a turnoutat the alarm and lectures. It wasntsh interesting. We are to get boots &deficiencies in equipment to-morrowWell I am glad we are to be on themove though I should like to seemore of Egypt. But we came to fight& thats what we all want to do, atlease we say so, though personally Iwould jump for joy if peace wasto be declared to-morrow.There is nothing but indignant discussionseverywhere about Beans letter. I haven'thad time to more than glance atit. It is no doubt true in the mainbut told in a way that seems exaggerated.No doubt the first outline camefrom Headquarters. I have had severaldiscussions with old soldiers & I thinkI express the general opinion of thoseentitled to compare, that the troopsbehaviour, considering all circumstances,is in so better than South Africa &might be every easily much worse.The temptations are far greater,we havebeen in one place for 11 weeks andtaking a broad view based on a knowledgeof human nature things are better We will be transferred to T B D's & othermen of war up there somewhere get inas close as possible & then into gigsto be towed by tugs ashore. Wont it beeerie in the dark creeping towards an enemy.What tricks our nerves will play with us.and then in the morning with theirartillery harassing us & its our ships screetchguns flying overhead. I wonder what Iwill feel like. If we run up against theTurks at night it will mean the bayonetno firing at night. Well we are infor it so its no good worrying. If I getthrough alright well & good if not wellits the Buddhist's Nirvana for me &you bear the sorrow. That's the cruellestpart of war those that are left. Still eventhe greatest sorrow heals in time. If itdidn't what an unlivable world this wouldbe. Here I am indulging in morbidthoughts when I ought to be asleep probablythe last sleep I will get in pyjamas on than I expected. You needn't be frightenedabout contagion. Any infectious caseis isolated immediately & we all haveour own blankets which nobody elseuses. Every little while there is whatwe call a short arm parade when thedoctor examines everyone. We hadit at Morphettville : It is not reallynecessary as anyone who tried toescape isolation would soon bedealt with by his tent mates.I can quite understand the horror with whichBean's letter would be read with bynarrow-minded females , but if theyonly knew of what happens in theirown country they would get a shock.Then a gain these things always readmuch worse in cold print. AnywayI don't think it will have the desiredeffect which evidently is to try & makethings better with the following contingents.They will soon find it isexaggerated in the main & therethey wont believe any of it.Now as to the commissions. Wefeel very wild about Stokes lettingthis be misunderstood all over Adelaidethough he denied it to-night. night. I dont think I will risking anythingin saying this much. The 3rd Brigade hasbeen selected to act as a covering party forthe landing on Gallipolli Peninsula. It islooked upon as a high honour. B&C B&D coyswill be in front with A & D coy acting assupports. There will be a battalion each sideof us, & one in reserve. Right ahead will be regimentalscouts who include Blackburn Fisher &Smith. I missed it through being in theboats crew & knowing nothing about it.That is not to say I would have been oneof them mind. The brigade's job will beto land, go inland a bit, entrench & hold onIf we are unlucky & are discovered it willgo hard with us. If we hold on in theface of much opposition we will make aname worth having. But the unfortunatepart is that there won't be too many leftto share the glory. "The path of honour leadsbut to the Grave. " How's that? I never dreamtI would I would get so sentimental over a joblike this. There is nothing further official.I must say I haven't given up hope altogether.I haven't seen Rand from the 3rdsince I last wrote. I went over to-nightbut he was not about. At any rateyou will have heard before this letterreaches you if it eventuates.I have been reading Sladens book'The Curse of the Nile'. It gives avery fine description of the Battleof Omdurmann (accent on thelast syl.) The bits about Cairo are veryinteresting to. The Maxwell mentionedas having charge of a brigade isour own Sir John Maxwell incharge of all the Egy troops in Egyptto-day.Everybody is well. My cold has gone& I am feeling in great nick. I havehardly been stiff at all after thegame of lacrosse on Sunday. We aretrying to get up a match for ThursdayS.A. V Victoria & NSW and for SaturdayAustralia V England. This early movementmay alter things somewhat though.If we go to France we will be on lines ofcom. etc for some time I think. Theregoes the 'Lights Out' Good night DarlingYours ever Tom