Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 3 February 1916 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo.February 03, 1916.Wednesday. My Dear Little GirlNo mail received this week. As it none wasexpected it is not so disappointing as itmight be. There seems to be lots of interestat least interesting to us to tell you thisweek. First of all the 7th & 8th battalions havegone to Ishmalia to day The next likelyto be sent are the 5th & 6th This would completethe 2nd Brigade (Victoria). Well to start fromthe beginning. Our long promised routemarch came off Monday. It was a 3rdBrigade affair & under service conditions soall our transports, attached artillery, ammunitioncolumn, light horse A. S.C. & A.M.C.accompanied us. From the enclosed cardyou can see our pack is quite a weight.We started about 9 o'clock the artillery leadingthe way. The route was on the Cairo roadas far as Ghiza a suburb about 4 milesfrom Cairo centre & 5 miles from Mena,From there we branched off on a nativeroad that winds through the cultivatedNile valley, being crossed by lots of othersimilar unmade roads. We wound roundtowards the camp striking the desert about a mile behind the camp. Onthe flat sandy plain between the valley& the rising sand hills, we bivouaced forlunch. The road was a bit trying onthe feet after so much sand walkingbut not many fell out. The route we tookled us alongside 4 Arab villages.The whole of the Nile valley is denselycultivated and about every mile thereis a native village, Bedouin, or Arabor Fellaheen whichever you like to callthem. I think some of the P.C. I sentyou showed you some. They seem to bejust one mass of mud flat roofedhouses built joining one another withoutorder or design. Of course they are filthyin the extreme & the smell __ .The roads are all 6 or 10 feet higher thanthe land & the whole valley seems to beintersected with them. The land isirrigated by water channels of varyingsizes. Where necessary the water israised by means of a bucket attachedby a rope to a long pole weighted atthe short end & fastened to form a leverThe filled bucked is emptied into achan raised channel. A less crude methodis by the old mill bucket worked by a blindfolded oxen native bullockA large wooden wheel with buckets attachedis fixed horizontally vertically so that the lowestpart of the wheel is in the water whilethe highest allows the water from thefixed buckets to fall into the channelThe ox is attached to a large wooden wheelplaced horizontally on a raised axle.This wheel has rough wooden cogs whichfit into a similarly cogged verticallywheel connected with the water wheel.The distance between the latter twois bridged so as to allow the ox totramp round. At one of the villageswe passed, the sound of an oil engineseemed very out of place. The old & ancientmethod of ploughing still holds good here.A wooden plough of the roughest materialwith a couple of oxen spanned. Six & seventhousand years ago the inhabitants ofthis land used the same method.But there are hundreds of things likethat, one of the reasons Egypt is sointeresting. The whole march was about11 miles which we took 4 hours to do includinga ten minutes halt every hour, whichis very good.Fordham who came into our tent at the time of the platoon & new sectionformations had been sent to Hospitalone day last week. Yesterday morninga major from the A.M.C. came over& took all sorts of particulars from usFordham had smallpox in a mildform. The morning was taken upby vaccinating A Company Only thosewho had taken well thoroughly on the boat wereexempt. I think I told you minedidn't as well as 75% of the battalion. Thevaccine was weak I believe. I dontthink there will be any doubt aboutthis time though as my arm has startedto itch alreadyWe had something out of the ordinaryto do to day. No 1 Platoon was detailedas fatigue party to entrain A.S.C. Storesat the Goods Station for the 7th & 8thbattalions proceeding to IshmailiaWe caught the 11.30 train after an earlydinner, passing the 1/2 brigade on ourway in. We had to wait some timebut when started loaded the trucksin no time, so quickly that the A.S.C.Major in charge complimented us highlySo at 4 o'clock we were marched tothe YMCA rooms where we dropped equipment & rifles & went ona two hours roam of Cairo 5Sunday I spent between the Zoo& Museum. I think I told you inmy last letter.There are to be alterations in thecurriculum. We are to get 4 fulldays leave a month from 10 to 10.30& have Sunday as rest day. I don't knowabout Saturday afternoon but theordinary days will be lengthened fordrill so that it will mean being inat 4 or 4.30 instead of 3.Tomorrow is our first days fullleave.Friday Had a glorious day yesterdayWith Stokes Blackburn & Jose, I spentthe morning at the museum. I haven'tsee anywhere near all yet. The moreI see the more I want to see. Thereis one thing I am positive about. Thereis nothing new under the sun. OldSolomon knew a thing or two. In a glasscase at the museum among sundryother interesting things is to be seenDice, no different from our every dayivory ones, knuckle bones mad carvedin stone with heiroglyphics on them (I have Arab & Egyptian kids playing with them)& most remarkable of all an oblongcribbage board with the same shapedivory pegs in them as you can see inmodern times. There was no descriptioncards to them it so wh for what purposethey were it was used 5000 years ago I don'tknow, possibly dice scores.Did I tell you about the companies40 strong of Egyptian & negro heavy& light infantry in (well carved woodenmodels) marching in column offours. And the models of bake houses,breweries (fancy beer in those times)potteries, wine shops, and granarieswith the clerk sitting on the flat rooftallying on his papyrus scroll. Ican't describe the feeling that comesover you when you view these ancientthings.The afternoon we spent going out toHeliopolus where the second contingenthase just reached. The tram serviceis the best I have ever seen It is reallyan electric train. Seven years agothis 6000 populated suburb waspractically a desert. The Belgiancompany who inaugurated it also own the tram service. Quite a separatecompany from the general tram Cowhich is a French concern.The houses are all white & magnificentoriental buildings all inhabitedby the wealthiest classes.We managed to dig up severalwe knew & came into town withReg. Hopkins & showed him roundIt was quite a treat to watch hisastonishment & bewildermentgrow as we pushed him on fromnovelty to novelty. Of course we onlyhad time for a tenth of the thingswe would like to have shown him.On the tram coming from Heliopoluswe got into conversation with a finelooking 6 foot educated Syrian who has somejob in the war office. He told ussome very interesting things. TheSyrians seem to have a lien on alot of important jobs here. For instancethe two leading papers 'Mokattam' and 'Ahaly'(both Arabic) are run by Syrians. TheEgyptians have made several abortiveattempts at papers. We had a veryinteresting discussion on Orient &Occident characteristics. He spoke like any highly educated Englishman.It seems I was wrong aboutan attack on the Canal. To-dayhas come the news of about 2400Turkish casualties (rough paper estimate) & 2 officers &13 men killed & 68 wounded on our side.It is supposed the enemy's strengthis 12000 men & 6 batteries. Whateverthe position is, I can't think itserious from appearance of things hereapart from 2 battalions of N.Z. & 2of Australians & the some engineers thereare no Australasian forces near thecanal & no threatened movement ofus in the near future. There mustbe 33,000 or so Territorials here inother parts of Egypt & the Soudan aswell. What Indian troops are on theCanal I don't knowThis morning we had some field manouvres& this pm. bathing parade. To-morrowmorning we are to go to the ranges.Saturday We have been out all day andA Coy Nos 1&2 Platoons are 'Inlying Piquet'to-night. That means sleeping withouttaking any clothes off & getting up beforereveille. We had an early startat 8 this morning to the ranges Our section had to go out as markersIt was quite an experience sittingin the trenches hearing the bulletszip zip & ping overhead. The zip isfrom bullets passing too high & theping from richochettes. We left theranges in time to march about a mileback & have lunch. The afternoonwas spent entrenching in a goodposition to await an attack from the9th Only one thing was wrong; ourleft flank was too exposed which theenemy took advantage of & our A Coyhad to retire as the Brigadier ruledwe had been all wiped out throughbeing enfiladed, that is our trencheshad been fired on lengthways froma good position. However we got thevictory.We heard nothing of the shoot off forthe prize offered the other day untilthis morning, when a pipe was givento each of another section which hadsaved the cartridges over.A lot of the chaps have been pickingup books on Egypt. There are a coupleSir Gilbert Parker has written, I forgetthe names, one is Donovan Pasha or something like that. Perhaps they could tellyou of others at the Public Library ifyou are interested.We have been getting most of theEnglish magazines on the war.The best easily is 'Land & water' aweekly paper with an articles by HillareBelloc. They are wonderfully interesting& not hard to follow.Nothing further about the Canalto-day except that there is a rumourthat the New Zealanders were takingpart in the brush the other day &had several wounded. I dont knowif this is reliable or not very likelyit is like most rumours we hear, startedas a joke. The trouble there will probablycause a delay of a day or two with lastweeks mail. Fisher had a letter fromhis father in which he said they wouldbe delayed at Port Said for a day.It just struck me that the recentengagements on the canal will bein the papers & perhaps you will beworrying over me. Don't forget thatno news is good news. You will knowif anything is wrong before you readit in the papers. You remember me telling youabout our procession on New YearsEve. Whom do you think that longQueensland conductor was. TedWreford who used to be in G&R Wills.He was down at the Grange one daywhen Tom lived there. I hadn't seenhim for 3 years until the other day,when I struck him at the canteen.By the bye you might be pleased toknow I have never been in the leastway tight since leaving Australia.Sometimes when we come in froma hot march I enjoy a pint. Whenwe go into Cairo we never have morethan a couple of drinks. There areany amount of pubs of a sort aboutCairo now. They shove up a flaringsign "The Sidney Bar", "The Melburne Hotel""The New ZeLand Bar" "The British Lion"etc. They are most disreputable affairsThe restaurants are the same. Theyvie with one another with givingthe most number of eggs. The bestone I have seen had a big sign"Tea with milk & sugar bread and butter,5 eggs and bacon, for 3 piastres". Theyalways mention the number of eggs. Sunday.Our canteen has been enlarged & improvedYou can now get hot meals for a moderatecharge. Bacon & Eggs are the favourite A bigplate for 3 pt. Icecream is another addition,Beevor has returned from Alexandria. Thereis a rumour that he may get second inCommand of the 16th Battalion (S.A & W.A secondcontingent) I only hope it is true.There has been no fighting on the Canalthe last two days. Some of our chaps sawsome N.Z. who came up with Turkish prisonerslast night. They have had a few pot shotsat outposts. The first company were inthe trenches for 24 hours & when the secondwere [came to] relieve them they didn't wantto go out & had quite an argument.They have had one officer killed I believe.Well its getting on time & I want to writea few postcards. I can't think of anymoreto tell you except that I am loving youmore than ever. Everything looks good forbeing back in May or very soon after.Englands 3,000,000 fresh troops combinedwith Russia's & France's ought to settle thingsvery soon. The last number of Land & Waterhas a very interesting article on Germany'sSpring Army which it proves to be not cannot be morethan 2 milllion. Good night my Wifeyour ever loving Tom.