Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Date: 26 November 1914 Location: The Red Sea Nationality: Australian Text: The Red Sea Thursday, November 26 1914. Left Aden at 5 o'clock in the early dawnWe arrived there Wednesday morning & afterwaiting a few hours in the roadstead wentinto harbour & coaled. I was pickedin a crew of ten to row the Colonel & Adjutantto several of the other boats. In spite ofthe hot weather & coal dust it was quiteenjoyable. We spent quite a time at theOrvieto. They have 48 German prisonersaboard from the Emden including theCaptain and a nephew of the Kaiser'sThe troops reckon the Germans have a bettertime than they do. There are 43 aboardthe Omrah. What a fight the Emden putup. The account written by the press correspondenton the Orvieto was read to us this morningI suppose it will have appeared in the papersbefore this reaches you. It mentions nothingabout the Konigsburg, but the wireless operatortold me I believe she was been captured about thesame time.Well to tell you a little about Aden The troops from India sometimes spenda year here after serving their time. AScottish piper while here, composed themost sorrowful dirge on record called'The Barren Hills of Aden'. I can quiteimagine it possible that a few monthsresidence would give the necessary frameof mind. The barren hills of Aden. Greattowering desolate peaks rising from anarrow foreshore of sand & rock &devoid of the slightest vegetation. TheAll the Arabian coast we have seenis nearly the same. There are quitea number of good sized houses in Aden.Barracks, official buildings cigarette factories and a cool lookingclub. The bay is alive with bum-boats;dinghies dinghies with 4 or 5 dark looking Arabswho take you down for everything they canThey throw up a fibre rope to which they attacha basket & sufficient rope to let it be drawnup. You put your money in & let it down& they put in what you want. They alwaysaske 4/- for anything you can afterwardsbuy for 1/-. Good Egyptian cigarettes were 1/-per 100. Tobacco, figs, dates & tinned pineapples were cheap.There are all sorts of races there. SomaliLand niggers, Abbysinians, Turks Arabs Indiancoolies & the general mixture. Some of themhave shaved heads, some curly & we sawa couple of ginger haired Arabs. They wereboth used to being called 'Ginger'. We hada good bit of fun bargaining & barrackingthem. The Coaling is done by IndianCoolies from barges, who empty bagsinto the hoppers lowered from the side.There were quite a dozen Indian Transportsin Port on their way back from EuropeWe have passed several today, all empty.We are travelling with all lights outto-night owing to the suspected presenceof a couple of Turkish men-of-war inthe Red Sea.Friday Has been very hot to day. We are travellingwith what little wind there is. Heard thereare quite a number of large men-of-warabout principally from the Mediterraneanfleet. We passed several more returningtroopships during the night. One just before sundown wasnumbered 156. There have been more to-day This afternoon the 'Hampshire' dropped back& got some meat from the Geelong Beforeshe had time to get back into positiona steamer was noticed steaming acrosstowards us. The cruiser went out & stoppedher. She was a Pilgrim boat bound forthe nearest Port to Mecca with pilgrimsprobably run by Cooks. What a uniquefirm that is, running Mohammaden pilgrimsto Mecca.I have found out that the capture of thatother man of war at the time of the duelis correct but nothing is to be said aboutit so be careful.Saturday. Such excitement. It was announcedjust before dinner that we were boundfor Egypt for the Winter. There are allsorts of rumours; that it is all of us exceptthe Artillery, that it is only the 3rd Brigade(Queens., W.A., Tas., & S.A.) etc. I don't supposewe will know until we are actuallydisembarked at Port Said or whever we do.I don't know what to think of it. Wedo not know how things are goingthere or what chance there is of a holy war. It seems a sort or disappointmentafter preparing for a look atthe Old Country, but if we are destinedfor Kitcheners Spring Army it will muchmore comfortable training in Cairothan Salisbury Plain. The climate duringDec., Jan., Feb., & March is ideal in theformer place. Days like S.A. Autumn& nights cold enough for an overcoatYou will get a lot of information aboutEgypt from 'Whittackers International' anannual periodical in the Library. Ithink it gives the different inhabitants& system of army service. It ispossible that we will garrison Egyptin place of any doubtful Egyptianbattalions, for of course in case ofa holy war, Mahommedan wouldhardly fight Mahommedan.The troops were generally excited,principally because of it being news& because of the prospect of a change.Except for a brush with Turkish strayoutposts, I don't think there is muchchance of fighting in Egypt. Howeveryou p will probably know a lot morethan this letter can tell you by thetime it reaches you. That raises anotherquestion. I think it just possible thatwe will not be allowed to mention anythingat Port Said. If so I will have to try &scheme to get this letter off. I supposeI will get the true soldierly methodsome day & not speculate aboutanything but take everything as itcomes; but oh this groping in the darkMonday Nothing interesting since writing theabove. This boat is worse than adrawing room for gossip. The yarnsthat get about are marvellous. I havestarted one or two lately & they wentrounded distorted and almost unrecognisableWe got Serg. Heritage to enrol membersfor a 'Camel Corps' He was inundatedwith applications all knowing everythingabout camels. The chief draw about it wasthat they were to get sergeants pay.I was vaccinated today That completesthe list I think. I must be full ofanti disease germs. We should reach Suez to-morrowmorning early. We entered the Gulfof Suez before Tea. Although Pt Saidis further from Cairo than Suez thereis no wharf at the latter place sowe could not disembark. We drewout with two of the Shire liners thismorning & have passed the N.Z. boatsI don't know why we are pushing on. Some artisansfrom the 'Hampshire' (Who came aboardat Aden) assisted by several tradesmenamong the troops, have repaired therent temporarily by bolting severalplates over it. I believe our people willnot get the blame at the enquiry. The'Hampshire' & 'Orvieto' heads collectedevidence at Aden. The rumour isthat the 'Shropshire' slowed considerablywithout warning.A cool head wind sprang up yesterday& had made things quite pleasant. Itis almost to cool to sleep on deckto-night.The crew which rowed the Colonel & Adjaround at Aden had their photos taken with the officer. I believe weare to get some each. If I get minein time I will enclose them.Since I have had time to think itover, I am rather pleased we are goingto Egypt. Even if we went to England,I we would get hardly any leave, & thatwould be more disappointing thannot going. There is certainly muchless chance of going to the front fromEgypt than England.Tuesday 9 A.M. Dec.1st The anchor has just dropped off SuezOrders have just been received toproceed to Alexandria. I do not knowwhether this applies to the whole ofthe fleet or to only part. It may meanthat we are to be stationed there.We are to mount a guard of 150 goingthrough the Canal. I suppose that isin case of any Turks sniping. Ibelieve the Canal is lined with Indiantroops.Wednesday We are nearly through the Canal & shouldreach Pt Said about 1 o'clock. Left Suezat 8 last night. It was too dark to see much of the town. They would notallow any of the bum boats near us,when we were at anchor in the bay.There is a railway alongside the Canal& early this morning we passed an armouredtrain manned by Indian troops. Every4 or 5 miles we pass an outpost of Sihks,Bengal Lancers Punjabis, Soudanese, or Territorials.At the various stations of which we havepassed a dozen this morning there is anguard The Indian troops look quaint intheir Kahki tunics & bare legs; It was verycold last night too. There are great lagoonseach side of the embankments for mostof the way.Another day will see us at Alexandria.I sometimes feel sorry to think of thevoyage ending then, but I suppose wewould get very sick of it if we had muchmore. It will be funny dealing with thecoinage, 10 Millions 1 Piastre = 2, 100 Piastresone Egyptian sovereign. We will have toreduce every price to s.d. before we canvalue it.3 p.m. It was quite stirring arriving at Pt Said We were about the 20th to enter the Canalso there was a harbour full to welcomeus. We steamed right through two longlines of transports & men o war.There was a British battleship, the Hampshire,3 Frenchmen, a couple of mail steamers& several coasters. The cheering wastremendous. It has been like thatever since, as each boat arrives. TheN.Z. s have coaled & two of them have justmoved off so I suppose we shall be goingsoon.All sorts of rumours are about dealing with theTurks marching a force into Egypt. The Itseems ridiculous as their lines of communicationcould be effectively cut by amere handful. I don't think we shallsee any fighting at all. It is evendoubtful if we shall leave Egypt beforethe war is over unless we are relieved.Well I shall wind up if I am to getthis letter posted. Goodnight little darlingI love you more than ever. Hope you haven'tforgotten about Xmas morning.Your loving boyTom