Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 11 February 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo. February 11, 1915. Thursday It was quite a letter carnival on Tuesday. There were your two very nice letters of 7th & 14th of Jan. one each from Jack, Leith Napier, & Dave Blyth and a post card from a Mr Devoy in Brisbane an old friend of mine. Your letters took me quite a long while to read. You are very good to send such long ones You can't imagine how welcome they are. You were quite right to lend George my sweater. I am glad to hear he has joined It is back luck about Algy. The S.A. second L.H. did not leave with the others so I suppose it is all up the flue with him though if he he had a good Colonel he would have got him out of it. I know very well you have made those pillow shams for a double bed. If it satisfies you to know I would sooner not get married than have single beds. However healthier it would be. I could never think much of the couple who decided on single beds. A few nights in Egypt would convert anyone How glad we are sometimes we have four blankets. I think I would like to hear about your dresses. I can hardly remember any you used to wear. It seems so long ago. Get another blouse like that white silk one with the red buttons. The one you wore first at that party of Freda's was my favourite I think. Lex is over the odds. That address should have found him though. I dont remember if it was No 7 A.M.P. Blds:, but A.M.P. Buildings, Pitt St is right. I will write to him this week & tell him what I think of him. Last time I wrote I got into told him you had not received an acknowledgement of the photo; but expected that it had been sent before the letter reached him. It is funny I have not heard from him since leaving Adelaide though I have written twice. I saw that drawing in the Sydney mail of the camp. It is very amusing. The Sphinx is not in sight from here at all nor is the 3rd pyramid. The tents are about 100 times the number & placed quite differently. There are at least 100 tents to a battallion of infantry & with 12 battallions and all the A.S.C, A.M.C., L.H. Artillery, Ammunition Column, Hospitals, Engineers etc., you can quite believe that a couple of miles are quite covered with them. For goodness sake don't ever talk about being silly over anything. I have always thought you the most sensible & levelheaded person I know. It makes me wild when you say what you did in your last letter. Don't think that I ever regret anything you have ever done You have always been my charming lovely angel so dont spoil it by talking about being foolish at any time. We have had some lovely times together & will have plenty more so dont worry about regretting anything. That idea of Mrs Stones of the 5/- a week-afternoon - Girl is very sensible. When I think of remember Freda's first months I always think it would have been much happier for her if she had more to. occupy her. The mustard pot is a very good idea for my birthday I hope you have managed it. I did not realise my birthday was so near until I read your reference to it Fancy only a day more than a week off. I for one don't believe that yarn about Kitchener saying the war would commence in May. If he did he meant it as a blind as the reinforcements will have made their presence felt long before that. I got quite a shock to read your inventory of the additions to the glory box Wherever have you got them all? I think we will have to adopt Vera Waughans idea & get them stored. There so^will be no leave this week so I have nothing to tell you about Cairo. Our next days leave is Wednesday The dates are arranged so that each company happens to be off any brigade or divisional duty. We have had a very mixed lot of work this week Monday a holiday. Tuesday field practise, Tuesday night & Wednesday on guard, today striking of tents, airing of blankets, battalion drill and night outpost work all night. I have managed to get out of the latter through a slight cold. I made it out to be a lot worse than it is & I wanted to write to you & get a bit of sleep after the guard. There are a lot of colds about, nearly as bad as it was at Morphettville. Quite an unusual amount of pneumonia is prevalant. The doctors are puzzled over it I have not heard of one case of typhoid, which is remarkable. Perhaps it is the inoculation. Authorities say that visitors to Egypt who have not been inoculated are very subject to it. Monday four of us paid a visit to the Citadel. It was most interesting we paid a visit to several of the mosques in the vicinity. There are 366 in Cairo. They have all a certain similarity. Of course the old ones are the most interesting. However I will have to refer you again to the guide books. They have a lot more than we noticed. The citadel will is also very fully dealt with. At present some Lancastershire Terriers are garrisoned there & it is a hospital. We saw the Indian wounded arrive from the Canal They were very interesting when you could get one to talk to. One little A.M.C. Ghurka was a very finely built chap with quite a Japanese type of feature. We persuaded him to show his kukris an awfully murderous looking weapon Wide in the blade with a very sharp edge and point. I can quite understand why the Deutchers fear them. There is a beautiful view of Cairo from one of the parapets We saw the place where that middle ages Johnny leaped on his horse to escape the treachery of some Mohammedan ruler. It looks feasible but improbable Again I refer you to the guide books. We went in in the tram with a Terrier who was quite decent sized & interesting The fare from the Citadel to the Central Tram Station, about a mile, is 2 milliemes for soldiers; fancy a halfpenny farthing for a mile. The Tommy told us several things that opened our eyes. Before the Australians came they were able to get oranges 6 & 7 for a half piastre; eggs 8 for a piastre and lots of other things much cheaper than we pay. The cute niggers shove their prices up for newcomers. Tomatoes have come down in price lately but not quite as far as the Tommies price of ten for a half piastre. Coming back we passed a wedding party The bride and bridegroom were mounted on a camel most gorgeously dressed with coloured drapings. They were screened from the rude public gaze by a calico box about a dozen other camels with the rest of the party followed. They were kickingup a most horrible noise, it was morelike a funeral.Sunday I seem to have hardly time tocontinue this letter until now.Just after finishing this on Thursdayevening we got news of Fordhamsdeath. It came as a shock as we understoodhe was getting better. And it wassmallpox and in its worst form.How it was his brother got the news thatcontradicted smallpox goodness onlyknows. No1 Platoon with the band all went to the funeralparty on Friday. We left here at 9 o'clock.Twelve were the firing party, six includingme, pallbearers, & the rest formed the party withLieut Hosking in charge. We were takenin a special tram right through Cairoto Abbassia near Heliopolis. Then begana long search for the Infectious Diseases Hospital.We marched a mile along the Heliopolisroad to the Egyptian Army Hospital, as thatwas not the one back we marched a mile& a half then cut off to the left up a bitof a hill past some brick works & theAbbassia cow barn & found the Hospital.It was then 1 o'clock. We had broughtno lunch with us so the matron & the doctor two very fine French people, soonprepared some tea & bread & butter. Wevery soon eat them out so tucked intosome Arab bread. It is dark in appearanceshaped like a large pancake & somewhatheavy & sour in taste. It was veryfilling. There was no gun carriageso a hearse that looked as if it oughtto have been burned too, had beenrequisitioned. It was a ricketty woodenaffair with an almost collapsing woodencross on top. The whole was painteda most billious bilious looking yellow & brunswickblack. After putting a Union Jackover the coffin and a new hat & belt &bayonet on top, off we started. The bandplayed the Dead March for half a milewhile we stepped in slow time. First linecame the firing party in file marchingwith reversed arms; then the band followed by the hearsewith 3 pallbearers each side. Behindit Fordhams brother then Hosking & theothers. There were not many peopleabout except a lot of delighted fellaheenkids whom the undertaker was swearingat most volubly in Arabic. Afterthe band had finished we broke intoan ordinary march & kept going for two & a half hours without a stop onblack asphalt roads right through Cairoon th through the old Roman Aqueduct past theoutskirts of Cairo & to the Protestant Cemetery.It must have been 7 or 8 miles. I forgotto tell you we were headed by a mountedEgyptian policeman who evidently, wantedto impress his pals as he took us aroundabout way through the main streetsof Cairo when the shortest lay nearer theriver. The parson was not there soHosking had to read the service whilewe all stood round & the firing partyleaned on their reversed rifles. Then3 volleys were fired & 3 of the band playedthe Last Post. We then marched acrossthe Abbass II Bridge to Ghiza & caughta tram for home reaching it about6. It was a hot day & the roads gave ushell. Poor Fordham was never popularbut he had never been cursed as he wasthat day. It is a shame to say anythingagainst the dead but I don't think therewas anyone who liked him. He was thebiggest liar I ever knew. Even his brotherwho seems quite a decent youngster, saidso. I am telling you this so that you canunderstand why I felt like I did all through. The only ones I feel at all sorryfor are his brother who has shown himselfquite calm all through and his parentsin S.A. His father is a broker & probablywell known to your father.Where he caught the smallpox no oneknows. The doctor at the hospital toldme it was the worst form, confluenteruptions all over the body, and there wasno hope from the first. They got outof him that he had missed vaccinationat on the boat. No one vaccinated couldever get it like that. How he missed is hardto say. He may have wiped it off justafter being done. Apart from vaccinatingA Coy & disinfecting our tent no precautionshave been taken. Mickey Smith has wornhis hat since he was the day he wastaken to the hospital with influenza.All our vaccinations have taken in mildforms. Dr Nott says that shows we arepractically immune. It is now overthree weeks since Fordham was firsttaken to the hospital & no case hasbeen reported so I suppose there isno risk now.Hosking promised to do his best toget us off parade Saturday. He was successful until the 10th were orderedto make an attack on a position nearthe pyramids for the benefit of DivisionalHeadquarters so out we had to go.We must have done well as the Generalcongratulated the Colonel & all the officersseemed pleased. I was up on my firstcrime sheet yesterday afternoon. Thursdaymorning I had to wait some timeto get a shave & when I came downthe Coy had just fallen in. Gertiespotted me & put in a sheet. I hadno hope of getting out of it so pleadedguilty & got 24 hours C.B. As I knewthe sergeant & corporal of the guard I gotout of reporting every half hour soI haven't been caused the slightestinconvenience. C.B includes half anhours pack drill at 4.30 but as to-dayis Sunday I miss that also.No further official news about thecommissions though the Engineersare supposed to have heard that thehundred or two recommended in thedivision have all been accepted excepttheirs more latrinograms I supposethat is what we call these rumours.Don't repeat that word in case you dontknow the meaning of latrine Brigade operations is the order thisweek. Next week it is to be DivisionalOperations & then there is talk of aslackening in the work. The firstbrigade started off on a four daysroute march & bivouac on Friday.We passed them moving off northtowards Memphis, on our way going to the funeral.Well what do you think of the Canalbusiness now. The 7th & 8th came backthe other day not having fired a shotmuch to their disgust. The New Zealandershad a couple killed and a few woundedpure bad luck they say. My engineerfriend told me some very interestingnews. In the Turks first attack youremember they were allowed to starterecting a pontoon bridge. Well the positionwas something like this A represents the entrenched British positionsB is a canal the engineers dug & C theground they left to keep it from floodingD is the position the Turks entrenched themselves in while they were tryingto bridge the canal at E, while a desultoryfire was kept up by the entrenched Britishand from some canal tugs and cruisers, which hadbeen mounted with 4" guns. When theythought the Turks had gone far enoughthe point at C was cut & the tugs cameright up to the position F where they wereable to so enfilade the Turks that theywere practically wiped out in the trenches.The rest were cut off while the pontoonswere blown to blazes. In the secondattack they had something of the samething except using redoubts & whenthe Turks had advanced to the Canalthe Egyptian artillery blew them to bitsfrom a concealed position on theother side of the Canal. The latest informationis that about 1000 dead Turks havebeen found which would mean roughly5000 wounded or approximately 7000 casualtiesout of their estimated force of 15,000. No wonderthey have gone back. The prisoners aremost horribly clad. Boots in pieces & out ofdate equipment. They seem to have forceda lot of Bedouins & Syrians into service. A lot ofthe Ghurka wounded have their handscut through seizing the Turks' bayonets when they charged preparatory to usingthose murderous looking knives on them.There has not been the least sign ofexcitement either here or in CairoFrom the behaviour of the Cairenes youcould not possibly imagine thatEgypt was concerned in any war.Eric Isaacsin was out here yesterdayHe is looking very well. The 10% Reinforcementshave all been drafted into thedifferent companies We have twoin our section. A chap named Clarkwho was in A Coy at Mophetville butkept back on account of illness & achap named PritchardWe are trying to get up a Lacrosse matchwith the Terriers. They evidently havesome crosses here as there was noticeof a match in yesterdays papers betweenLancastershire & Cheshire representative fromthe E. Lancas. Fusiliers. Time is flyingand we are parading extra early to-morrowso I will end by saying goodnightdarling.Your ever loving HusbandTom