Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 20 April 1915 Location: Alexandria Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Recipient: Miss E. W. Champion'Cartoon' Omar Place Unley ParkSouth Australia. Text: Tuesday, April 20, 1915.RL Cooper Lt My Dear EileenEarly this morning I got quitea surprise to receive your letter of March 19. Therewas one from Lex too. His comment on your informationof receiving a 30 page letter was that I must have been veryfull. I laughed over your episode re Maughams. Of course itcouldn't be helped & you were very clever to get out of some of itas you did. How slow some people are to see through ladders.Les is a despicable cad. I feel very sorry for Vera though a lot ofit is her own fault for putting up with it. I don't think youwill find much of interest in that library I never got mostof the interesting books. I don't remember 'Sarchidon'.Lex mentioned something about the war in his letter thatmakes me think he would be interested in pp 80 - 84 of No 18,& 110-113 of No. 19 when you get it. You might pass on anythingyou think would interest him very much. I wouldn't ask youonly you say you love writing to Whytes.I thought Les would probably be leaving in time to be here soon butI gather it may be some time before they get under weigh.This week's mail will probably be the last for a while. I thinkI said that on the previous two occasions but you will understandhow things are. If you have heard nothing by the time thisreaches you. you will know everything is O.K.I am sorry I had no luck with 19 last week & the worst ofit there will probably be a delay of a month.I was quite right in what I said on page 40 of No 168th 7, 6 & 5th lines from the bottom. It has turned out exactly.'Land & Water' is very interesting this week, the Apr. 3rd issueI mean. Belloc reckons being releasedby the fall of I don't think I was far wrong in myestimate of those taking part. Here is the end of the page so good nightYours ever, Tom.