Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 11 February 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo. February 11, 1915. Thursday It was quite a letter carnival onTuesday. There were your two very niceletters of 7th & 14th of Jan. one each from Jack, Leith Napier, &Dave Blyth and a post card from a Mr Devoyin Brisbane an old friend of mine. Yourletters took me quite a long while toread. You are very good to send suchlong ones. You can't imagine how welcomethey are. You were quite right to lend Georgemy sweater. I am glad to hear he has joinedIt is bad luck about Algy. The S.A. secondL.H. did not leave with the others so I supposeit is all up the flue with him though if hehe had a good Colonel he would have got himout of it.I know very well you have made thosepillow shams for a double bed. If it satisfiesyou to know I would sooner not get marriedthan have single beds. However healthier itwould be I could never think much ofthe couple who decided on single beds.A few nights in Egypt would convertanyone How glad we are sometimes wehave four blankets. I think I would like to hear about your dresses. I canhardly remember any you used to wear. Itseems so long ago. Get another one blouse like thatwhite silk one with the red buttons. The oneyou wore first at that party of Freda's wasmy favourite I think. Lex is over theodds. That address should have foundhim though. I don't remember if it wasNo 7. A.M.P Blds; but A.M.P Buildings, Pitt Stis right. I will write to him this week& tell him what I think of him. Lasttime I wrote I got onto told him youhad not received an acknowledgementof the photo; but expected that it had beensent before the letter reached him. It isfunny I have not heard from him sinceleaving Adelaide though I have writtentwice.I saw that drawing in the Sydney Mailof the camp. It is very amusing. TheSphinx is not in sight from here atall nor is the 3rd pyramid. The tentsare about 100 times the number & placedquite differently. There are at least 100 tentsto a battallion of infantry & with 12 battalionsand all the A.S.C., AM.C., L.H. Artillery, AmmunitionColumn, Hospitals, Engineers, etc, you canquite believe that a couple of miles are quite covered with them.For goodness sake don't ever talk about beingsilly over anything. I have always thought youthe most sensible & levelheaded person I know.It makes me wild when you say what youdid in your last letter. Don't think that Iever regret anything you have ever doneYou have always been my charminglovely angel so don't spoil it bytalking about being foolish at any time.We have had some lovely times together& will have plenty more so don't worryabout regretting anything. That idea ofMrs Stones of the 5/- a week-afternoon-girl is very sensible. When I think of rememberFreda's first months I always thinkit would have been much happier forher if she had more to occupy her.The mustard pot is a very good ideafor my birthday I hope you have managedit. I did not realise my birthday was sonear until I read your reference to itFancy only a day more than a weekoff.I for one don't believe that yarn aboutKitchener saying the war would commencein May. If he did he didn't meant it asa blind as the reinforcements will have made their presence felt long beforethat.I got quite a shock to read your inventoryof the additions to the glory box Whereverhave you got them all? I think we willhave to adopt Vera Maughans idea &get them stored.There so will be no leave this week so I havenothing to tell you about Cairo.Our next days leave is WednesdayThe dates are arranged so that eachcompany happens to be off any brigadeor divisional duty.We have had a very mixed lot ofwork this week Monday a holiday, Tuesdayfield practice, Tuesday night & Wednesdayon guard, Today striking of tents, airingof blankets, battalion drill and nightoutpost work all night. I have managedto get out of the latter through a slightcold. I made it out to be a lot worsethan it is & I wanted to write to you& get a bit of sleep after the guard.There are a lot of colds about, nearly asbad as it was at Morphettville. Quitean unusual amount of pneumonia isprevalant. The doctors are puzzled overit. I have not heard of one case of typhoid which is remarkable. Perhaps it is the inoculation. Authorities say thatvisitors to Egypt who have not beeninoculated are very subject to it.Monday four of us paid a visit to theCitadel. It was most interesting wepaid a visit to several of the mosquesin the vicinity. There are 366 in Cairo.They have all a certain similarity.Of course the old ones are the mostinteresting. However I will have torefer you again to the guidebooks.They have a lot more than we noticed.The Citadel will is also very fully dealtwith. At present some LancastershireTerriers are garrisoned there & it is ahospital. We saw the Indian woundedarrive from the canal They were veryinteresting when you could get oneto talk to. One little A.M.C. Ghurka wasa very finely built chap with quitea Japanese type of feature We persuadedhim to show his kukris an awfullymurderous looking weapon Wide inthe blade with a very sharp edge andpoint I can quite undertand why theDeutchers fear them.There is a beautiful view of Cairo from one of the parapets We saw the placewhere that middle ages Johnny leapedon his horse to escape the treachery ofsome Mohammedan ruler. It looksfeasible but improbable Again Irefer you to the guide books. Wewent in in the tram with a Terrierwho was quite decent sized & interestingThe fare from the Citadel to the CentralTram Station, about a mile, is 2Milliemes for soldiers; fancy a farthing halfpennyfor a mile. The Tommy told us severalthings that opened our eyes. Beforethe Australians came they were ableto get oranges 6 & 7 for a half piastre, eggs8 for a piastre and lots of other thingsmuch cheaper than we pay. The cuteniggers shove their prices up fornewcomers. Tomatoes have comedown in price lately but not quiteas far as the Tommies price of tenfor a half piastre.Coming back we passed a wedding partyThe bride & bridegroom were mounted on acamel with most gorgeously dressed withcoloured drapings They were screened fromthe rude public gaze by a calico boxabout a dozen other camels with the rest of the party followed. They were kickingup a most horrible noise, it was morelike a funeral.Sunday I seem to have hardly time tocontinue this letter until nowJust after finishing this on Thursdayevening we got news of Fordhamsdeath. It came as a shock as we under-stood he was getting better. And it wassmallpox and in its worst form.How it was his brother got the news thatcontradicted smallpox goodness onlyknows. No 1 Platoon with the band all went to the funeralparty on Friday. We left here at 9 o'clockTwelve were the firing party, six includingme, pallbearers, & the rest formed the party withLieut Hosking in charge. We were takenin a special tram right through Cairoto Abbassia nearly Heliopolis. Then begana long search for the Infectious Diseases HospitalWe marched a mile along the Heliopolisroad to the Egyptian Army Hospital, as thatwas not the one back we marched a mile& a half then cut off to the left up a bitof a hill past some brick works & theAbbassia cow barn & found the HospitalIt was then 1 o'clock. We had broughtno lunch with us so the matron & the doctor two very fine French people, soonprepared some tea & bread & butter. Wevery soon eat them out so tucked intosome Arab bread. It is dark in appearanceshaped like a large pancake & somewhatheavy & sour in taste. It was veryfilling. There was no guncarriageso a hearse that looked as if it oughtto have been buried too, had beenrequisitioned. It was a ricketty woodenaffair with an almost collapsing woodencross on top. The whole was painteda most billious bilious looking yellow & brunswickblack. After putting a Union Jackover the coffin and a new hat & belt &bayonet on top, off we started. The bandplayed the Dead March for half a milewhole we stepped in slow time. First timecame the firing party in file marchingwith reversed arms; then the band followed by the hearsewith 3 pallbearers each side. Behindit Fordhams brother then Hosking & theothers. There were not many peopleabout except a lot of delighted fellaheenkids whom the undertaker was swearingat most volubly in Arabic. Afterthe band had finished we broke intoan ordinary march & kept going for two & a half hours without a stop, onblack asphalt roads right through Cairoon to through the old Roman aqueduct past theoutskirts of Cairo & to the Protestant Cemetery.It must have been 7 or 8 miles. I forgotto tell you we were headed by a mounted Egyptian policeman who evidently wantedto impress his pals as he took us aroundabout way through the main streetsof Cairo when the shortest lay nearer theriver. The parson was not there soHosking had to read the service whilewe all stood round & the firing partyleaned on their reversed rifles. Then3 volleys were fired & 3 of the band playedthe Last Post. We then marched acrossthe Abbass II Bridge to Ghiza & caughta train for home reaching it about6. It was a hot day & the roads gave ushell. Poor Fordham was never popularbut he had never been cursed as he wasthat day. It is a shame to say anythingagainst the dead but I dont think therewas anyone who liked him. He was thebiggest liar I ever knew. Even his brother,who seems quite a decent youngster, saidso. I am telling you this so you canunderstand why I felt like I did allthrough. The only ones I feel at all sorryfor are his brother who has shown himselfquite calm all through and his parentsin S.A. His father is a broker & probablywell known to your father.Where he caught the smallpox no oneknows. The doctor at the hospital toldme it was the worst form, confluenteruptions all over the body, and there wasno hope from the first. They got outof him that he had missed vaccinationat on the boat. No one vaccinated couldever get it like that. How he missed is hardto say. He may have wiped it off justafter being done. Apart from vaccinatingA Coy & disinfecting our tent no precautionshave been taken. Mickey Smith has wornhis hat since he was the day he wastaken to the hospital with influenzaAll our vaccinations have taken in mildforms. Dr Nott says that shows we arepractically immune. It is now overthree weeks since Fordham was firsttaken to the hospital & no case hasbeen reported so I suppose there isno risk now.Hosking promised to do his best toget us off parade Saturday. He wassuccessful until the 10th were orderedto make an attack on a position nearthe pyramids for the benefit of DivisionalHeadquarters so out we had to go.We must have done well as the Generalcongratulated the Colonel & all the officersseemed pleased. I was up on my firstcrime sheet yesterday afternoon. Thursdaymorning I had to wait some timeto get a shave & when I came downthe Coy had just fallen in. Gertiespotted me & put in a sheet. I hadno hope of getting out of it so pleadedguilty & got 24 hours C.B. As I knewthe sergeant & corporal of the guard I gotout of reporting every half hour soI havent been caused the slightestinconvenience. C.B includes half anhours pack drill at 4.30 but as to-dayis Sunday I miss that also.No further official news about theCommissions though the Engineersare supposed to have heard that thehundred or two recommended in thedivision have all been accepted excepttheirs more latrinograms I suppose.That is what we call these rumours.Dont repeat that word in case you dontknow the meaning of latrine. Brigade operations is the order thisweek Next week it is to be DivisionalOperations & then there is talk of aslackening in the work. The firstbrigade started off on a four daysroute march & bivouac on Friday.We passed them moving off Northtowards Memphis, going on our way to the funeral.Well what do you think of the Canalbusiness now. The 7th & 8th came backthe other day not having fired a shotmuch to their disgust. The New Zealandershad a couple killed and a few woundedpure bad luck they say. My engineerfriend told me some very interestingnews. In the Turks first attack youremember they were allowed to starterecting a pontoon bridge. Well the positionwas something like this. A represents the entrenched British positionB is a canal the engineers dug & C the D is the position the Turks entrenched ground they left to keep it from floodingthemselves in while they were tryingto bridge the Canal at E, while a desultoryfire was kept up by the entrenched Britishand from some Canal tugs & cruisers which hadbeen mounted with 4 guns. When theythought the Turks had gone far enoughthe point at C was cut & the tugs cameright up to the position F where they wereable to so enfilade the Turks that theywere practically wiped out in the trenches.The rest were cut off while the pontoonswere blown to blazes. In the secondattack they had something of the samething except using redoubts & whenthe Turks had advanced to the Canalthe Egyptian Artillery blew them to bitsfrom a concealed position on theother side of the Canal. The latest informationis about 1000 dead Turks havebeen found which would mean roughly5000 wounded or approximately 7000 casualtiesout of their estimated force of 15000 No wonderthey have gone back. The prisoners aremost horribly clad. Boots in pieces & out ofdate equipment They seem to have forceda lot of Bedouins & Syrians into service. A lot ofthe Ghurka wounded have their handscut through seizing the Turks bayonets. when they charged preparatory to usingthose murderous looking knives on them.There has not been the least sign ofexcitement either here or in Cairo.From the behaviour of the Cairenes youcould not possibly imagine thatEgypt was concerned in any war.Eric Isaacsen was out here yesterday.He is looking very well. The 10% Reinforcementshave all been drafted into thedifferent companies We have twoin our section. A chap named Clarkwho was in A Coy at Morphetville butkept back on account of illness & achap named [[Bond?]].We are trying to get up a lacrosse matchwith the Jerries. They evidently havesome crosses here as there was noticeof a match in yesterdays papers betweenLancastershire & Cheshire representative fromthe E. Lancers. Fusileers. Time is flyingand we are parading extra early tomorrowso I will end by saying goodnightdarling.Your ever loving HusbandTom.