Author: Eileen Chapion Location: Cortoon Nationality: Australian Text: BILLIET'SGrand Coffee Palace,ADELAIDE. Hindley Street, Sunday it doesn't say you haven't left there.I wish you were in England oranywhere, safe, till the war was over.I also see in the Paper that thesoldiers would appreciate thoseknitted flannels, so I hope youvegot the two I sent you a few mailsback. Im dying for the days topass and poor Linda wants themto go slowly so as she can have Leowith her longer. In a way Idread her going, because I knowexactly what it's like and whatshe'llone another again. Last nightKathleen Isaachsen asked us togo round there, so I went. Yousaid to go, even if it was aneffort, didn't you? But I didn'twant to go after what TomBoykett said. I just wanted tocry. He asked when last Idheard from you and said hewas always thinking of dearold Tom, and that youronly fault, if fault it could becalled, was that your heartis too big. I cant helpthinking of that. thinking of course, thosemade of brass & inoutside. They are prettylittle ash trays too, I like themI think the cushion covers (ifwhat they are) are a bit gaudy though.I have put them in your chestof drawers, because I havent anymore room in my little boxwhere I keep the hard ware.Tom, dear, its so horrible not knowingwhere you are, or where to send mynext letter to you, and I hate thinkingYour'e nearer the front. Everyone is. Linda wishesjoined and that shegiven her consent, and theworst of it is that Leo is half-hearted about it, which of coursemakes them both unhappy.The way you acted, Tom, was sodifferent and thinking of thathas made me realise what aComforter you are. You are a bornComforter, and I adore you for it.You are my Comforter. You arewonderful and marvelous atcomforting, and Leo can't.I would sooner have a "Comforter" thana Colonel. February 18th, 1915I am posting the Registerand 2 knitted flannelswhich I do hope you receive.You like these flannels, don't you?Mabel Halley has given mesuch a lovely big photo ofherself. Im giving her thatnasty one of mine, that thePhotographer spoilt but gaveit us free. Father sends hislove and says he willwrite next mail. Jack wasdelighted yesterday he wentwith Mother to choose a newsuit with long pants. Everyone is remarking on the wayhe is developing. Molly isgetting so tall. She is not fatbut just nice. Her legs arelovely and very firm. Every onesays how like me she is growing.Isnt it funny? I said Goodbyeto her this morning and shesaid "Goodbye Love" She said toTom Say we go outside, Kid, andhave a game I told her she was nasty not to writeto you. I said You never write toyour Uncle Tom She absolutely flewinto a rage and yelled at me "Sillything, I do. Silly thing I do, Yousilly sing I do." about a dozen timesshe was so wild & then said Iwrite to Tom every time," she meant"every mail". Isaid what do you putin it She said "a tamp"meaning "stamp". Poor little thingshe was so cross because she'salways writing to you. I nevergo to Anna's now. I can't he bothered.Today I bought a lovely piece of whitesilk for a blouse. It was 3 /1 1/2 ydfor 2/3 as it was a remnant.I got an extra good one so as it willbe good for when you come and youalways liked me in my white blousewith red buttons, didn't you? I havealso bought the wonderful silk stockingsand put them in my box. They are towear the day you come home. I amgetting an engagement trousseau & awedding trousseau . Goodbye for thepresent Tom dear Eileen