Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 24 December 1914 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp near Cairo.December 24th, 1914. My Dear Little Girl,It is getting near midnight.I have been keeping awake purposelythinking hard of you. It does notseem a bit like Christmas. The officershave been having a bit of a shivooin their mess tents, a bit of singinghas been going on in some ofthe men's tents but otherwise thereis nothing to distinguish it fromany other day. There has only beenthe usual amount of leave to-day.Sports are to be held for the 10thto-morrow.This mail business is gettingfearfully serious. The mailthe other day was only a smallone nearly all Queensland & Sydneyletters sent via America to London& forwarded here with a few Englishletters. No mail has come directfrom Australia yet. There is a silver lining to the cloud howeverI have just been over to the 3rd Brigadetent P.O. The two clerks are workinghard sorting a big mail whichwe are promised to-morrow.You can't imagine what a tremendouslonging I have for a letterTwo months is a long time to be withoutany news of you whatever.Christmas Day 1 am. I have beenthinking hard of you lying in bedsmoking. I have been trying to goover every incident since thathappy fate first brought us to-getherDo you remember the Adelaide Stationa certain afternoon in April 1912?I think it was the reading of thatdelightful letter in Sydney withthe '6o' on the back of the envelopethat settled me finally. I havebeen thinking of all those wonderfultrips times in the hills, on the river, on the beach inthe summerhouse in the dining &breakfast rooms & best of all inthe drawing rooms and those peevish rows dows we used to have,which we only had to enjoy themaking up. Oh you were a Penelopein those days. Still you weremore concerned over a certaintall lady than you used to admit,so I had my revenge. I wonderif Stewart has been in any of thefighting in Africa.I heard some news yesterday that willinterest you. A man in theEngineers Corps who knows GeneralBridges was here seeing Stokes& Fisher. The general told himthat we would never see anyreal action. We might goto France in the Spring, butguarding lines of communicationwas the most we could hope for.The troops have improved wonderfullyduring the fortnight we havebeen here, that is as far asceremonial drill is concerned. We can slope, order or presentarms with any regulars & as forsteadiness when standing atease, you can hardly detect amovement. In the army thisis always emphasised as a specialpoint, exactly why, I can't tell.We had a very interesting threedays this week. We A Company took up aposition which B company hadto attack. We spent two dayson entrenchments & surveyingour position & the third dayB Coy attacked. The first attackwas messed up by both, & the Colonelwho was umpire ordered itto be done again. This timewe both distinguished ourselves& got a lot of praise from ColonelWeir. B Coy were declared thewinners much to our surprise.Of course sham fights are veryunsatisfactory affairs as goodshooting counts for nothing.Well I had better go to sleep nowGoodnight sweetheart. Christmas Day I had a mostdelightful morning. I skippedChurch parade & got your letterof Nov 5. You can't imagine howdelightful it was. I have onlyread it over 3 times yet, but willread it through once a day untilthe next arrives. It was wonderfulreading it. I actually cried &laughed. I felt oh so homesickthe last week, I never wanted youso much; but the letter madea wonderful difference aftera bit. I am only looking forwardto the next now. I had onefrom mother & Teo too.I must tell you about to-day.We had a real blowout fordinner. Turkey was off but wehad a delicious stew instead.Cauliflower & potatoes, plum pudding,canned pears, currant lunchbiscuits and a large bottleof champagne among 5 of us.Harry holt gave us the wine as a surprise. There was onlyone toast 'Absent friends'The sports were held this afternoonbut I didn't attend. I wentup the hill near the pyramidsto read your letter again.I had some afternoon teaat Mena Cafe with Stokesand a chap on H.Q. Staff namedScott-Young. It has been morelike a Sunday than ChristmasDay. I feel very sorry forPhil. Robin & Micky Smith.They received no letters. as theirsSmiths had his all addressedto his bank in London &they have not been forwardedyet. Robins' girl is in Londonbut is coming to Egypt withher mother.Later Just received your cable,You are a darling. You can'timagine the joy it gave meI stared at it for a long timeSeveral of the others got cables too, but I'll bet they didn't getthe enjoyment I did.I am sorry I have not got myphoto taken yet. The 14/- a weekgoes nowhere in Cairo althougheverything is so cheap thatis why I suppose. We are to getour back pay next week soI will get it taken then.I wont send you a cable, it willbe too late for Christmas. I don'tknow how you feel about itbut I always hate getting presentseven a day before or after 7the day.I heard something to-day thatis fairly reliable. We may possiblybe here only until the end ofJanuary & then go to the Southof France to continue our trainingWe are a long long way frombeing fit for the field. It looksas if we will be doing garrisonduty there etc. to relieve those millionFrench trained soldiers who are evidently intended for the Springmovement. The result of the Warlooks very rosy. The Germansare evidently all out. The If theydo not cave in before theSpring they won't have the ghostof a hope when the 2 or 3 millionallies reinforcements get to them.It is practically certain wewill never be anywhere nearthe front. They may makeuse of the Light Horse forspecial work but I will bevery surprised if we ever firea shot.We are to start the doubleCompany drill on Monday.This was introduced into theBritish army early this year.It is rather difficult to explain.There will be the same numberof men in a battalion butonly in 4 companies Eachcompany has a first & secondin command & is split up into 4 platoons with a subaltern toeach. A lot of the non-com. positionsare altered so Jack Gordon maypossibly be reduced to Lance-Sergeant. It will take a lot ofgetting into, as it means practicallylearning our Company & battalion drillagain. Keith Green may possiblyget second in command ofour Company.I will answer your letter onSunday afternoon. GoodnightDarling.Sunday. I am writing this in thecanteen tent. They provide tables& forms to seat a couple of hundredso letter writing is so much morecomfortable than in our tents.It is too hot to go up on the sandhills. This place is remarkablefor the extremes of temperatureYou need all four blankets atnight & look for shade in theday time.I have just read your letter forthe fifth time. You felt muchlike I did the first month. If ithadn't been for being caughtI believe I would have slopedback to S.A. Still I am graduallygetting resigned but it still hurtsa lot. I did not send a telegramfrom Fremantle as I had nomeans of getting one off untilwe had been there a couple ofdays. Always remember no newsis good news. You will hearquickly enough if anything goeswrong. Our tent have an arrange-ment that way. I am dying to hearall about Molly. It will be hardto realise her quickly growing brain.I am glad I was wrong aboutyou & her. Keep me posted abouthere new sayings. I sent thatdilapidated p.c. from FremantleI hope you received it. I am enclosingthe photo we had taken on theAscanius of the Colonel's boatcrew. I only got hold of one yesterday I put the names on in case youwould not recognise me.What are the outings you have arrangedfor us? I hope Morphetville is notone.I have posted an illustrated paperof a sort. The only Australiantroops that took part in the marchin Cairo were the QueenslandLight Horse.The behaviour of the Aust. troops hasbeen excellent. You see verylittle drunkeness, less than inAdelaide + 20000 of here, to timesas many as were in Adelaide. Theypay for anything they get, notlike in South Africa. Occasionallythere may be a bit of a rowalways caused by some nativetrying to cheat. The Caireneslike us better than the [[Terriers]]or N.Z. Everyday nearly thereis a letter in the paper praisingus. I don't know whether theywill still appear after we get our back pay.I don't think I told you of thewonderful vegetables we get here.Cabbages larger than you eversaw, with perfect hearts & notthe sign of the grub. Cauliflowersthe same and beautiful newpotatoes. Onions & leeks areplentiful too. The tomatoes arelarge & good. The natives sayit only takes 4 weeks to growa cabbage.Well I think I have exhaustedall the news this week.I really enjoy writing theseletters, something I never thoughtpossible. I imagine I amtalking to you all the time.Well, keep on smiling darlingit won't be more than [[5?]]months now. Goodnight littlegirl. Your loving husbandTom.