Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Date: 31 October 1914 Location: No Coy England Nationality: Australian Text: DarlingYour beautiful letters arrived yesterdayI have been reading them at odd times eversince. The first is the grandest I have everreceived. I am writing this on the wharf.I was on picquette duty yesterday afternoon& will be on till we sail this afternoonThe WA troops are going on board nowThere are 4 men of war in harbour nowTwo cruisers from N.Z., A Japanese battle cruiser& the Pioneer. The Minotaur from N.Z isat Albany with over 30 troopships. TheFrenchman is probably there too.We heard last night that Turkey has joinedin the fray. This may make some differenceto us as we may be detailed to Egypt asthat is what Turkey probably has her eyeon. It all depends on how many troopshave been left there. That would probablymean a very short trip. I like the lookof the war this past fortnight. The Germanthreat of an England invasion seems absolutebluff & the a feeble attempt to rally her.hard pressed Armies. I still am of theopinion that even if we go to Englandthe we will be back about May. Kitchenersspring army of over a million, all freshtroops, will have the effect of routingthe Germans if they last out over the winterlet alone several a fresh Russian & French armies.Germany must have her full strengthin the field now. The effect of fresh troopsare against those who have been through a strong hardcampaign is marvelous, and as this seemsto be a war of exhaustion, there appears tome, to be not the slightest doubt of theresult. The only purpose the enemy havesprung is in their new siege guns whichhave made artificial fortifications useless.Kitchener always expressed his doubt inthe ability of the European fortifications.The only fault of the stay here hasbeen the scarcity of leave. I have only hadtwo hours which gave me a look roundFremantle only. Mrs Fearley came downTuesday afternoon when we were ona route march to the ranges and went 4 hours to see me. Wasn't she a Britonshe had a letter to Cap. Lorenzo froma captain friend of hers. I didn't get leavethough. I believe Mjr B4 settled it.Malcolm Smith got a day's leave througha W.A. Major, a friend of his & B4 wasvery sore at some other leave that wasgranted from headquarters without himknowing about it he probably blockedmine. I should like to have had a lookat Perth. Of course the photo is out ofthe question until I get to England orI see yours every day. I like it betterevery time I look at it. It is themost perfect likeness ever taken.I often think how wonderfully patient& splendid you were all the time I waschasing shadows after I left Andersons.Dr Bollen was fortunately wrong aboutthe measles. There hasnt been a case sincethe first day & those are all up nowThey will still be isolated for a fortnightyet.The reason of the shortage of leave is because of the abuse some of themhave made of it, in overstaying.I was on picquette duty last night inFremantle rounding them up. If it hadn'tbeen for that I should probably havehad yesterday afternoon in Perth.I am glad to say I didn't make anymistakes when writing to Bessie & AuntEmily.Its going to be awfull without you. If itwasn't for the general excitement & the beingkept going I am sure I would desert here.I will tell you a secret. Parts of your letterbrought tears to my eyes & it takes alot to do that.There goes the bugle to fall in & the mailwill have gone before I knock offagain. Goodnight DarlingYours everTom Reply to Adelaide Y.M. C. A. Army Department