Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: him before he got away, stood himup against a wall and literally shot piecesout of him.Two mine sweepers have been settled. They are only trawlers and drag for mineswith wire ropes. Naturally they takea tremendous risk. There are half adozen in harbour here.A French General arrived yesterday &inspected the camp of the 9thWe have started Bridge again. Thereis to be no stake. I ought to be somethingof a player when I get back.All our horses are going ashore to-morrowWe have about 40 on board. No word of the 2nd or 1st Brigade yet norof any mails.I have had to rearrange my writing kit I can get this book with a few postcardsand paper in my haversack nicely. Yourphoto is in wonderfully good order. Thecardboard covers of the book keep it fromgetting bent. Three of the corners are gone a littlebut the photo is as undamaged as the dayI got it. Do you remember how shy youwere about showing the proof? The tissueenvelope I still have. I like the hazy glimpseI can get of you through it. I alwayshave it on the back of the previous pagewhen I am writing I never get tired oflooking at it. I am afraid I have neglected the profile one. That is in my kit bagwith your letters. I don't like it half aswell as the one Freda called affectedThe best light to look at it in is artificial. It looks most natural then. I feel awfullyashamed I haven't had a decent photo tosend you yet.Thursday March 11th We have had quite a pleasantday. This morning we took the Colonel & partyashore near the 9th camp for a courtmartial. I was quite surprised to findround a little point a tiny jetty. Quitea decent sized village. We can see partof it from the Ionian but most ishidden by the little hill that runs out tothe point. The 9th camp is on the hill The heads were away for several hoursso after we had lunch we had a stroll. A well made road led from the jettywinding through the group of 50 or so houses thatformed the village. There were two or threecafes where you could get Turkish coffee,Cognac, a dark sour weak wine, rum &English lager beer. Needless to say wesampled the Tennants Lager and found it very refreshing. Most of the houses aretwo storeyed & well build of stone. A peculiarshaped tile forms the roof. The tiles aresemicircular and are laid like this There was the same variety of dress. The women were all of a clear cur similartype & wore the white cloth round theirheads ears & chins looking for all the worldlike a corpse with the chin tied up. The old women are nearly as good lookingas the young. Babies were very numerous. A finely built Greek Orthodox Churchlooked magnificent among these ruralsurroundings Some of us went inside The Greek priest in his funny cap &gown gave us a taper each which welit & stuck in an urn containingsand. The thing that one noticed mostwas the absence of seats or pews. The interiorwas richly decorated in blue tints with plentyof well painted panels of the saints. A tallbeautifully carved preaching desk (I forgetthe correct name) was particularly noticeable On a specially carved lecturn was a paintingof the Madonna & Child that looked veryold probably medaeval?. I don't knowwhat the burning of the tapers signifiedat any rate we didn't show our appreciation 75by placing anything in the alms boxwhich was in a prominent position. The villages are really out of bounds butof course the Colonels crew would be excepted.Over the other side of the hill on the beachbelow the 9th camp is tiny quaint brickchurch about 8ft x 12 ft by 7ft high. It isevidently dis not in use. A niche in onewall evidently formed the altar. The rafterswere very old and wormeaten. There was a littleglass bowl in a bracket with sanctuaryoil & floats in it. On the other side wasan iron spiked arrangement with bits ofrags on it. I wonder if it is a superstitionsimilar to one often seen in Ireland nearwells?The harbour is very busy. Super DreadnoughtsCruisers, Destroyers, Torpedo boats, Trawlers(for mine sweeping), Submarines, Supplyships (coal, oil & provisions) Pinnaces &Picquet boats and a dozen or so transports. There are 5 boats wi for the 3rd Brigade [[*c3403S.A.R.EXPEDy. FORCEMORPHETTVLETOADELAIDE2nd RETURNFree of chargeS.A.R.EXPEDy. FORCEADELAIDE*]]The Ionian, Malda, Nizam & Davanah.There are 6 'Castle' lin with Royal MarineLight Infantry & s etails anda couple of French Transports. When wewere ashore we saw of party of Frenchmanwith their greenish khaki blue overcoats c3403S.A.R.EXPEDy. FORCEMORPHETTVLETOADELAIDE2nd RETURNFree of chargeS.A.R.EXPEDy. FORCEADELAIDE by placing anything in the alms boxwhich was in a prominent position. The villages are really out of bounds butof course the Colonels crew would be excepted.Over the other side of the hill on the beachbelow the 9th camp is tiny quaint brickchurch about 8ft x 12 ft by 7ft high. It isevidently dis not in use. A niche in onewall evidently formed the altar. The rafterswere very old and wormeaten. There was a littleglass bowl in a bracket with sanctuaryoil & floats in it. On the other side wasan iron spiked arrangement with bits ofrags on it. I wonder if it is a superstitionsimilar to one often seen in Ireland nearwells?The harbour is very busy. Super DreadnoughtsCruisers, Destroyers, Torpedo boats, Trawlers(for mine sweeping), Submarines, Supplyships (coal, oil & provisions) Pinnaces &Picquet boats and a dozen or so transports. There are 5 boats wi for the 3rd Brigade The Ionian, Malda, Suffolk Nizam & Davanah.There are 6 'Castle' liners in with Royal MarineLight Infantry & sundry details anda couple of French Transports. When wewere ashore we saw of party of Frenchmanwith their greenish khaki blue overcoats 76 & ugly French military caps. War boats are constantly leaving and coming& it is difficult to keep count of themThe most noteworthy are the Queen Elizabeththe Inflexible (of Falkland Island fame)the Lord Nelson, Indominatable & AE2Submarine from Australia.There is an are two Admirals [?], a rear & a viceToday the French General & a couple ofhis staff paid an official visit on boardThe only gaudy thing about him was hiscap all gold & red braidwork & lace fancifullycoloured. His only decoration was theLegion of Honour medal & ribbon whichhe seemed very proud of. We turned out aguard of honour & the band.Friday March 12 I was called away last nightat 8 when I was writing. We went roundto the Brigade boats with the orders for thebrigade training to-day. When we came backthere was a mouthful of whiskey waitingfor each of us.A mail left yesterday. I was able to getmuch more th in than should have bygetting Captain Green to censor it insteadof my own Corp. Commander. I can'trelish Beaver censoring any of my letters.From C3 you may be able to gather that 77All is well & 40000 French troops are arrivingin 3 weeks time. They have to close the maila day before it leaves on account of theCensoring I noticed it still lying in themail room so it may not go for a day ortwoA couple of large liners in their grey warpaint arrived during the night. It lookslike the Canadian flag they are flying.A hospital ship, the 'Soudan' also arrivedI don't know who is on board or whereshe comes from. She looks very prettypainted white with a broad green bandright round her intersected, with 3 largered crosses on each side.Saturday afternoon Intercepted again lastnight. This evening now looks like aregular thing. However we dont mindWe would sooner be on this game thanany other. This morning we took theBrigadier & staff to the 'Frankonia' oneof the yesterdays arrivals. She is a largeCunnard liner. The other big one is theRoyal George a Canadian Northern Railwayboat. Both have Naval Brigades on boardI think this is the branch George & Guthriebelong to. They have a lot of naval reservemen among them. They say about 10000 are coming here.The last day or two has been a bit coldbut not too cold to sleep on deck.The past 3 days the official war communiqueshave been posted up. Things seem to be progressingin the Dardanelles.The tucker has not been very varied latelyYou see the boat was leaving Alexandria Pt Said forEngland when she was stopped & sent toAlexandria & took us on board next dayThey had no chance of victualling her properlyso bully beef has been our main dietlately. The butter is a bit rancid. To-dayfor dinner we got quite a surprise withsome beautiful rice soup, tender beef and potatoes& bread & jam. The bread is always goodfreshly baked each night. Jam & cheesewill be served regularly each *other day now.There has been no complaint as mostrecognise that it is inevitable. Thankgoodness the bully has been very goodbut you get awfully sick of it.A boat load of men got ashore the othernight. What for goodness only knows. Theygot each 10 days field punishment. For twohours *each day they are tied up to waggon wheels& spend the rest of the time in the detentionroom. Naturally discipline will be very strict now.There are 6 Castle liners in now withMarines & Naval Brigade men on boardAll the horses have been taken ashoreThere is plenty of green feed & they seemto be enjoying themselvesSunday Evening, I wouldn't have swoppedplaces with the King to-day. Just thinkof it We have been all round theQueen Elizabeth & all over a submarineRight down in her & the B11 at thatthe ? identical one that made historywhen she dived under 4 rows of mines& sank that Turkish battleship. Andnot least of all we have shankenhands with her V.C. Commander &had afternoon tea with her crewevery one awarded the D.S.M. Letme tell you how it came aboutAt 2 o'clock the crew had to take theBrigadier & staff ashore to the 9thCamp. He said he would be ashorean hour or so & had no objectionto our pulling out to the 'Eliza' Offwe went with Sgt Heritage on whomwe picked up as we were moving off. We had a good 3 miles to row & sawthe Agamemnon Inflexible & Lord Nelson steam off. The booms were upon the 'Eliza' & we were frightenedwe wouldn't be in time. However wegot there in time to rowe right roundher and gaze aghast at the greatfloating mass of armoured steel &guns. What a personification of powershe looked. Think of it 8 immense long15 inch dealers of death capable of throwinga shells weighing a ton, 15 miles.On each side forward were 6 - 6 inchers& aft 2 each side, 16 in all. Amidshipswhat looked like 4 - 12 inchers. Theimmense steel barbettes for the 15swere awe inspiring You couldn't imagineany force piercing them And yet tothink that floating fort costing 2 million& its thousand souls could be blottedout by one little mine. War is cruelthink of that gigantic engine of destructionthrowing its ton shells whe 25000 yds over hills& reducing forts to rubbish and mento bloody atoms, while 4 miles out ofrange; neither the weilders not seeing theeffect of their fire nor the defenders wherethey it came from.There were a lot of men on deckamong them about 20 civies (men in civilian clothes) whom we foundto be articifers from the workshops.On the quarter deck the commanderpaced his constitutional accompaniedby an officer while the orderley messengerwaited in attendance. The rangefinding crows nest was an immenseaffair, roofed, capable of holding 20men. In an engagement seat theonly faces life visible would be the facesof the range finders.We slowly drifted past changing remarkswith the crew & then made a supplyship with two submarines alongside.We had no thought of being able toboard the submarines as even inpeace times it needs an admiralsorder to board one. We were invitedaboard the supply ship in search ofa drink of water & meeting some ofthe submarine's crew were told theCommander might let us aboard ifwe asked. Up went Sgt Tomlinson& with Australian cheek got what wewanted. We couldn't scramble downthe connecting plank quickly enough.The crew of 13 sort of opened theirbosoms to us. The conning tower was an elliptical shaped affair onlycoming to a very narrow point eachend From bow to stern stretched a wirerope supported in the centre by a standardthat kept it above all gear sothat a wire rope would offer noobstruction when the submarine wassubmerged. The periscope was capableof being lowered below this wire forof course the periscope is the only visibleobject when she is submerged.A ladder led down the conning tower& into the hull as also did one onthe deck. Down below was the mostinteresting little cubby hole. The littleroom was only about 5 feet in height& about 60 feet in length. The switcheswheels & machinery bewilded one.Right forward were the two torpedotubes surrounded by all the gearthat works them. Two long cigars tookup a lot of space on the floor. On themwere placed bags which overcame thenecessity of seating accommodation.The floor forward was the roofof the petrol tank. A neat littleelectric cooking arrangement took ourfancy. In no time they boiled some water & made us tea. I had aregulation navy basin of it It waseasily the most delicious tea I havehad since you made that cup withthe boiling milk. They cut us sandwiched& it seemed as if the couldn't doenough for us. What a fine bodyof a man they looked clear cut thin faced lookingall with intellectual faces & nothing tosay for about themselves. Heroes everyone. We couldn't stand it any longerso off we fired questions after questionThis is the disjointed story we wereable to drag out of one. 'We were toldoff to reconnoitre in the Dardanelles& got up as far as Chanak withoutmishap when the skipper spotted theTurkish battleship. We dived to get a bitcloser, guessed the range at 1000yds &fired. Then they spotted us & we hadjust time to see her disappear ten minutesafter firing & get away as quickly aswe could. We were 9 hours underthat trip. It made is feel a bitdizzy when we got to the fresh air againbut you don't notice it until then."They seemed quite unconcerned aboutthe exploit ' Why' said one' The last trip up the Straights was the toughest.We were told off to draw the fireof the forts & we did it only too wellA shell lobbed within 20 yds of uswith our conning tower above water.Another followed closer before wehad time to dive, but we were wellunder when we heard the third. Itwas touch & go that time." Another ofour crew was able to drag out thefollowing." The skipper told use we wereto get up as far as we could & therewere 4 rows of mines to dodge & said'what about it ' 'Where you are gameto go we are" we answered, & off we went.'Of course we had a peep at theperiscope. It gave quite a clear deflectionof boats lying ahead. On it are markedline which enable the commander totell where the torpedoes are sighting.When submerged the only target offeredis this tiny tube two inches in diameterThink of the accuracy of that gunner on the 'Birmingham'who picked of the German periscope athalf a mile, first shot too.The crew loaded us with magazinesa cigarette each to smoke above& several tins of oxtail soup which were pressed on us in spite of ourprotests that it was robbing them.What was more important still wasan invitation to visit them again.This morning we took the shipsdoctor ashore at the little jetty & havingan hour to wait took a stroll intothe village again. We penetrated abit further & found it much morepopulous. The little narrow laneswound about in a most perplexingway We came across the villagepump with several clear typed womenfilling their stone jars. Very picturesqueit looked.Soldiers from the 8 French transportsnow in port have started a little campquite near the town. About half amile round the other way the advancecompany of the Naval Brigade ASChave also started a camp. Frenchsoldiers of in every conceivable typeof uniform were about.On At the shore nearest ninth campa little jetty has been started by theengineers. Whatever will it be likewhen the full force of 100000 AustralianEnglish & French arrive? We did our trip round the brigadeboat in 28 minutes early this evening& o it is time I turned in probably todream about submarines & Super Dreadnoughts& you. Goodnight little girl.Monday Nothing startling to-day. Thismorning we took the Brigadier ashore.There was a brigade route march on.After coming back we rowed over to asmall gunboat who the 'Hussan' whichis acting flagship for the war news.From there we went to the 9th landingpassing a merchantman which that strucka mine in the Bay of Smyrna. Her cargoof wheat was being unloaded into a boatalongside. After landing our passengerswe had a swim. The water was too coldto stay in long. The last couple of dayshave been wonderfully fine the bay assmooth as glass & the sun quite warmin the day time. It has rained twicesince we have been here, just shortthunderstorms. I would like to knowwhat is going on in the Dardanelles to-dayThe harbour is clear of men of war withthe exception of the 'Swiftsure' (the cruiserwith the big cranes for hoisting torpedo boatsthat picked us up at Aden 3 months ago) the two submarines & the flagship.Even the hospital ship 'Soudan' clearedout yesterday She is attached to the navy.A Russian 5 funnelled Cruiser the identicalone that we saw at Colombo went outthis afternoon. I don't think I mentionedthe Blenheim as being in the other day.She is a pre Dreadnought fitted up as averitable machine shop. She is capableof acting as supply ship to 32 Destroyers.Taking out damaged plates & puttingin new ones is right in her lineI forgot to tell you yesterday that Submarinecrews are all voluntary They get 3/6 a dayextra, not much of an insurance annuitypremium is it? The Australian submarineAE2 was in the other day She ran agroundnear the entrance & has had to go toMalta to be overhauled.Some of the transports are using greatTurkish barges for taking horses ashoreI in I wonder if they are captures?The French Foreign Legion is here. Nodoubt you have heard of them. Oncejoined you are there for life. A ha'pennya day is the pay & no questions asked whenyou join I wonder if it is as romanticas novelists paint it. I know there are several Englishman in it.There is some talk of us swimmingback to Alexandria for water & stores.I hope so. The water they put on yesterdaywas brackish. You were thirstier afterthan before drinking. Harry Nott inhis condemnation wrote that it wasa disgrace to H.M Transports.Major Oldham was expressing his opinionrather freely yesterday about the Scotchowners, Scotch ship & Scotch food. Thecaptain overheard & took up the defenceimmediately. The discussion came onto the butter. 'Wh That butter was thefinest procurable when it was but aboard,'said the captain. 'But how old is that ship'said Mjr Oldham.That little village I have tried to describeis Murkos Mudros. The largest on the islandis "Castro" exactly where it lies I can'tsay.Tuesday The programme this morning waspracticing landing under cover of a warshipsguns. B Coy was the lander covering Coy &had to be landed first to hold the positionwhile the others landed. They started at3:30 a m We left with the Brigadier & Staffafter they were afloat & were the first to land. It was very dark, the shorenot visible until within 100 yds makingit very difficult to pick up any directionThere are no prominent landmarks roundthe bay & the boats being anchored forwardonly, swing round to each change of windIt is most perplexing at night time. Ithink it was more luck than anythingthat we struck the right spot. Afterlanding out passengers we came back &met several boatloads wandering aboutJust after we got aboard the rain startedOnly half could have got ashore whenit was cancelled. They came back likedrowned rats. Naturally the whole thingwas a failure which the ships officersexpected. To-day has been quite an off day.The crew went over to the flagship forwar news. All we got yesterday & to-dayconcerned the French frontier only. It looksas if things were beginning to move there.The night before last the 'Ameythist' asmall cruiser was doing reconnorteringwork in the Dardanelles when she wassurprised by a battery of howitzers.Twenty three were killed & 14 wounded.'One' of the 'mouth' class of cruisers islying in harbour. Of of her boilers burst while operating up there and killed11 men. The battleship we thought wasthe 'Inflexible' was the 'Agamemnon'In her first engagement some of the shipscrew were over on the disengaged sidepainting blotches. This has a peculiaroptical effect making a difficult target.The shells were falling all around & twomen were killed before being all ordered'under armour'. The tale goes that the skippergot hauled over the coals about it. Oneof the men killed had a point brush stillin his hand when picked up.We got all this news on our trip the morningI dont know why I am writing it all downIt will all be stale by the time it reachesyou. However I am to post it I cant imagineI seem to derive a lot of pleasure from justwriting to you though I know it will be monthsbefore you can get it.For the last 4 nights I have been living or atleast sleeping in luxury. The 9th OrderleyRoom was is one of the smoking rooms. Asthey are ashore it is not being used.Roy White first told me about it & RhodesJones & I bunk on the saddleback cushionedlounges. There is plenty of room & we arenot disturbed. I have been doing all the writing one one of the marble card tables.We are envied by all who are in the know.A collier came alongside this morning& delivered water & some preservedvegetables. The tucker has been muchbetter the last couple of days.Wednesday 17th A funny incident happenedthis morning About 20 sick (all those inthe hospital on board) were being towedashore by a pinnace. A Greek bum boatwas alongside one of the jigs selling fruitThe pace increased & the owner let go topick up the next boat. Somehow or otherthe Dago got jambed & his boat fullystocked turned turtle. The fellows couldhardly pull him out for laughingAt He gave one agonised look at thekeel of his boat with matches nuts orangesTurkish Delight etc floating round andburst into tears. All the way ashore hetore his hair in real Greek Dago fashionThe climax came when one of the purchasersasked for his tuppence change. He hada hired man aboard but he jumped ontothe jig when the boat was filling. He wasmost unconcerned, smoking his cigarette& gazing round as if it was quite apleasure trip There were half a dozen cases of measlesamong those taken ashore. Four are fromA company two of which are in our platoonArchie Smith & Swann. It is only Germanmeasles. Fisher has tonsolitis but expectto be back again in a couple of days.The news this morning only concernedFrance nothing about the Dardanelles orRussia. I believe they have made goodprogress in the former place if they havenot actually got right throughMore boats in to-day but no word of therest of our division. It is rumouredSir Ian Hamilton is to command thisexpedition & is to arrive to-dayNothing official about our moving orthe arrival of the rest of the divisionMost of the French force must behere by now.Thursday Had a day with the heads. We musthave seen 1/2 a doz Generals at the same timethis morning. The new scout Phaeton arrivedyesterday with Sir Ian Hamilton & staffaboard. They ran from Marseilles in twodays, quite easy for a 36 knot boat. She isa new class built for scouting & destroyingdestroyers. Not heavily armed, nearly everythingbeing sacrificed for speed. We took the brigadier off to her on his own. Atthe same time a couple of British Generals& their staffs & 2 French Generals with theirstaffs arrived on their official visits toSir Ian. The saluting that went on amongthem was never ending. We were notkept waiting for long as the 'Phaeton' movedoff after the visitors had hurriedly gotaboard their small craft. The sailors saidshe was going up the Dardanelles sightseeingComing back the Brigadier told us thatwe would be here for some time asthe French & Naval Brigade The [[?]] wouldprobably move first. He also told us thatthe Queen Elizabeth was heavily engaged yesterdayA large number of shells struck herbut only bounced back into the water.This new elastic armoured steel mustbe wonderful stuff. One shell only didany damage, entering the a wardroompossibly through a porthole. No casualtieswere mentioned.Today has been a bit rough making rowingdifficult. They took all the morning to takethe battalion off, as each boat has to make3 trips, some 4. We had quite a rough timerowing the brigadier round to severalof the Castle boats this afternoon. This evening four of the Castle boatsand the Royal George went out. Nobodyseems to know where they are boundfor. I think there is R.M.L. I on all.The officers were all supposed to wearweb equipment & rifles for the firsttime. They didn't play the game thoughas they only had overcoats in their packsB4 got a cheer mixed with jeers whenhe appeared with his. Unfortunatelyhe had noticed a great 12 lb tin of bullysomebody had slipped in when his batmanwasn't looking.There were some nurses aboard theah Narvanha. A hospital has been establis...ashore so perhaps Gay Burns is thereI haven't seen any of them but next timewe go to Mudros I will have a look out.Still no mail. Have found out thereis a weekly mail with Egypt & Castro whichhes somewhere on the other side of the islandIt comes overland from Castro to Mudrosbut there has been no military letters yet.Perhaps they don't haven't let the [[headqua...?]]P.O. know where to send ours.Friday Last night I had just finished thisI had time to undress & settle down comfortably when in came Sgt Tomlinson The crew was wanted to take the Adj& the two interpreters we have with us ashoreSome Greek had run amok & been laidout by one of our chaps before doingany damage. The local police were kickingup a shindy. The wind had increasedso those heavy gigs needed some pullingagainst the head wind. it took us nearly2 hours solid pulling to get to the newlyconstructed 9th jetty We got back to theship at 2.30 am. We have been off allduty to-day as a reward.There was to have been another attemptat night landing in the morning butI expect it will be cancelled as the windis still strong. At no time have the wavesbeen large enough to cause the slightestmovement of the Ionian but the jigsbeing so high out of the water, catch it all& make it only possible to move very slowlyagainst it.The Castle liners all came back to-dayhaving only cruised outside the harbourTo day comes the official news that theInvincible Ocean Irresistible have met withmisfortune with no loss of life but a Frenchcruiser sank with all hands in 3 minutes The trouble seems to be floating mines The Turks or rather the Germansfloat these mines down the Straights withthe tide, causing the men of war to move out each night.The library was opened to-day. The 9thOrderly room were we sleep is being used.However we have still got our tables &lounges & as it is only to be open for an houreach day it will cause us inconvenience.I got hold of a book by McCutcheon 'Nedra'this morning & have finished it. It isa most perplexing book, but I expect youhave read it.It has struck me that the reason of theothers getting the chance of removal beforeus is the want of transports to bring upthe rest of the Division. I surmise thatthe opportunity of 4 transports near Egyptwas the cause of the 3rd Brigade moving whenthey did it did and were was intended as a reserve forthe marines that landed. Finding that it waspremature to attempt it at present & theother forces arriving complete, they naturallywould get pride of position. I believe thereare over 2000 transports engaged & just atthis time they would have none to sparefrom the Channel.Saturday The Dardanelles rumours [[yester]] we're not quite right as we found outthis morning when the official news fromthe 'Hussar' was posted. The Irresistible& Ocean & 2 French boats were sunk andthe Invincible was damaged by ahowitzer battery but successfully beach at [[?]]. This happened Thursday.We had a lecture this afternoon aboutthe war. It is estimated there are 18000German Officers & non coms among theTurks. You see Germany has been frightened all along Turkey would say 'Kismet'when the bombardment started & makeit an excuse to declare peace earlyto save Constantinople, which is quiteon the boards I think.There is a rumour among the officersthat Sir Ian Hamilton has declaredhe won't table the proposition withouthalf a million men.It has been blowing a gale today. Therehas been no chance of any crews going out.Each company in turn had a sort ofroute march round the ship. Beingoff all other duties except the crew I havebeen reading all day. I struck an oldbound volume of the Corkhill.A mail closed today. Through Keith GreenI was able to write you more than the regulation page chiefly extracts fromthis diary letter. How I hate writing lettersthat I know are to be censored. I quakewhen I think this one might be.All the boats have two anchors out butthe waves are not strong enough tocase any motion. The wind is howlingthrough the rigging a most [[mournfill?]]way. This storm will stop all operationsin the Dardanelles. untilIt is wonderful what can be done withbully beef. The past 3 days since our cookshave taken over the galley they have madedifferent kinds of stews with it, quitepalatable they have been.The lights have gone out so it is Goodnightagain My Darling.Monday night I didnt write yesterday. Theredidnt seem anything of interest to write about& then paper is getting short.A couple of the Octans crew have been attachedto us for signalling purposes until they get anothership. It appears they had plenty of time to getoff the Ocean taking 3 hours to sink. Someof the crew, excited, jumped on to the decks ofthe rescuing boats & broke their legs.The two sister ships easily distinguishedAgamemnon & Lord Nelson with the [[Queen]]. Elizabeth came in last night. A shell piercedone of the funnels of the Liza. We haven't heardmuch of the last engagement.The storm blew out yesterday. The crewhad a trip to the Hussar after war news& to the 3rd Brigade boat. In the afternoonthe wind was blowing nearly as strong,ofrom the immediate reverse quarter &has kept up to-day. The jigs have been sobadly knocked about that I believe theyare not to be used for taking troops ashoreanymore The companies have been takingit in turn to exercise by running roundthe ship.This afternoon General Birdwood whoarrived to-day in the 'Doris' came aboard.The Doris has been engaged bombardingSmyrna, Whether she brought mails fromwith the General remains to be seenFour weeks to-day without a line. That's thehardest part of all.One of the chaps who was recommended forone of those commissions in the Englisharmy got hold of the what he says isreliable information that nearly allthose recommended had been grantedI hope my luck changes if we get intoany action. I am a getting a veratable book worm.Yesterday I finished that volume ofCornhill & to-day Jess by Rider Haggard.This is not bad reading though the ending seems too sad. I think I would have finishedit a another way.When at the flagship yesterday they gaveus some London Times & copies of theMalta Daily Chronicle as late as March 10th.Here I am at the last page. I will haveto fall back over the sheet of paper. I will have to fall back on sheets of paper. When I getthe chance I will post you the two booksof carbon copies in case any of the letters hasgone astray.This ought to be a worlds record letter 44 pagesif so far & not chance of posting for sometime. I forgot to number Saturdays censoredletter C4. These censored mails will be weeklygoing ashore on Monday to the local post officewhere they are sent to Castro & thence persteamer to Alexandria via Athens. Theyshould arrive in time to catch the followingweeks Australian mail which leaveson Tuesdays generally.I will end up this page as a letter & the goon with No. 19 on whatever I can gethold of. Good night my Darling Angelfrom your ever loving boy Tom.