Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 1 March 1915 Location: Alexandria Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: AlexandriaMarch 1st, 1915.My Own Little GirlIt is now 5pm & we are likely topull off at any time. I posted No 16 fromCairo but as late orders came out that allletters were to be censored it may havebeen held up on that account. I sentyou a postcard to this effect.We left Mena at 8 oclock last night marchinginto Cairo where we waited for a coupleof hours in the square of the Kasr el Nilbarracks at present occupied by a regimentof Lancaster Terriers. Although it was 11 when wearrived they were kind enough to opentheir canteen & we soon bought them outof pudding, bread & cheese, cold meats, teaetc. The march from there to the railwaystation (central) was about 1 1/2 miles.The roads all the way were po tarred macad.& played up with our feet a little, after beingused so much to sand. None of them seemto be sore to-day. We had a slow trainjourney of about 5 hours which landed usin Alexandria at 8 this morning.I was sorry the journey was mostly inthe dark as I would very much liked tohave seen a bit of the Delta as it was a fire control station. The usual practise is tocontrol the guns from an observation point somedistance from the fort both on account of bettersecurity & so that the dust raised by the shells thathit will not affect the sighting. The first shell fromthe 'Liza took off the roof, the second the top storey& the 3rd left debris only. The forts replied butthe shells fell very short. "Actually under fire"Flossie said when he got back.Chapman has been given a Commission in theBritish Army & attached to Lieut Colonel Wyly of theIntelligence Corps. A portion of this corps is attachedto the A & NZ Army Corps. I am sure no one willgrudge Chapman the honour, he well deserves it.A great joke was played on Crowhurst last night.He got a Registered parcel containing a pair of socks & mittenson which 1/4 had been paid in stamps. A falseregistration book was rigged up & he was askedto pay 1/3 surcharge. He was in a great state holdingforth much to our amusement as he is rather ahard case. Just as he was left had made up his mind toenter a complaint to the colonel we gave himback his 1/3. What a goat I am when I said I hadn't receivedthe flannels I got the idea into my head itwas body belts. Of course I received the monogrammedknitted flannels. By the way isn't that rathera confusing misnomer.Feb 19 is quite a remarkable date. It is theday the Australian contingent to New Guinealanded back in Australia, the day we becamefull blown soldiers after our 6 months service,the date of the first bombardment of theDardanelles & notable for another event youprobably remember.Tuesday. I am afraid our reign in the 9th Orderly Room isto end. An officer came in last night & said it waswanted for regimental duties so we will probably haveto go out to-day.Yesterday the Queen Elizabeth did a trial run to the Dardanelles.Her engines have ben fixed up properly & the 15" shells havearrived. All the colonels & staff of the 3rd Brigade were takenup for a recconoitre. I heard they had quite an excitingtime for the colonel at any rate. Our Flossie wasin a great state of excitement when he came back.There was an unsuspicious looking white house on ahill half a mile from one of the ports. I appears they havejust tumbled to the fact that it was being used as we saw quite a lot this morning.Vivid green everywhere. What intensecultivators the Egyptians are. Every squareyard seems to be utilised. They don't wasteground on fences not even round theircemeteries which have no dividing linebetween them & the fields. The villages aremuch the same as near Cairo. Mud shackswith an appearance of being all joined togetherwith no system or method whatever. The oneswe saw this morning were lower roofed thannear Cairo, smaller & with frequent domes.It is not hard to imagine how Egypt supports22 million people. I don't think you could everbe out of sight of one of these villages in anypart of the valley. I have heard a yarn thatLord Kitchener while a captain in the EgyptianArmy disappeared for 3 years. He spent it'doing' Egypt as a native. If it is true whata wonderful story he could tell.The Ionian is not a large boat, about 6000 tonsI think an Allan liner from the American trade.She has just come from India. Some shellsshe brought that need refilling as well as othercargo for England has been landed here.There were large quantities of firewood waitingto be loaded when we arrived. These twocircumstances obviously prove we are not going to Europe. Firewood would only beloaded in a desert. The general opinion nowis Alexandrietta or Jaffa to cut up the railwayso as to successfully prevent any raid onEgypt for some time.The accommodation is not quite as good as onthe Ascanius but as it will only be a 3 or 4days trip we won't notice it. The 10th & 9thwith Brigade Headquarters staff are on board.This morning while waiting for our time togo on board (11.30) Smith Jose Fisher & I dida slope to the city. We drove about the narrowstone paved streets for a while & then pulledup at a fine hotel in the European quarterWe had a magnificcent feed of ham & eggs& coffee & came back without being missed.Alexandria is different to Cairo. There isa much greater number of Europeans (mostly Dagos)about. The streets we went through had alla similar appearance being both a closermixture of Eastern & Western than Cairo.There they are nearly all distinct. Of coursewe only had time to see very little.The harbour is full of shipping & a lot oflikely looking transports are about. We willprobably pull out to-night into the stream.Goodness knows when you will hearfrom me [[again]] . I havent the slightest Rifle Club with Noel Webb as chief coach.Nobody seems to want to be left out in thecold.We have had great laughs over those lettersof Corporal Mitchell to Lady Brown thathave appeared in the 'Mail'. The lasthas been posted up while & crowds havelistened & roared while somebody has read theridiculous lies out. He is getting afearful time but is the sort of complacentfool that ridicule doesn't trouble.Still some troopships arriving. The latestrumour is that we start Wednesday morningweather permitting. I must not say too muchabout our movements now.We had a view of a seaplane in flightthis afternoon. I didn't tell you that themother ship of with 21 seaplanes has beenin harbour several days. There are allsorts of troops here but I must not detailthem because etc.after they are due. I hope they do arrive asthey will be very useful. Lots of the chapshave been getting socks posted to them.Though I have plenty at present they area pair would probably be useful presentlyas one kn never knows when the blackkitsbags will be getatable.Jones had a letter from Barry Muirhead.You will remember him, he is engagedto Cassie Butler. After mentioning thatthe Adelaide R C had 43 enlisted to date& talking about a lot of fellows eligiblefor the front joining rifle clubs etc.he adds 'So you see we are all intenselypatriotic & do our duty nobly (& safely).We seem all mean enough to deride thestay at home soldiers. You always heara jeer of disgust when somebody reads outthat so & so has joined a rifle club orthe Local Light Horse. How we did laughover the photo in the Observer of the Ladies idea of what the mail arrangements willbea. We may be only there a few days or wemay be there a month. I hardly think wewill see any fighting. We will be well abovethe Turkish landing army. If they metus I hardly think they would fight. Theymust be in a most deplorable condition.The state of the prisoners in Cairo couldhardly be worse whatever must theirstate now be.I have joined a cable league. Anythinginteresting is cabled to Fordham the brokerin Adelaide who sends postcards out to abouta dozen of our fellows people. Your namehas just been added to the list, at leasthe was informed last mail. I only heardabout it yesterday Saturday or I would havejoined before. A cable was then sent 'Leavingall well' as much as the censor would allow.In case of anything serious a private directcable would be sent. Fordham has theshortest cable address & the best means ofinforming those in the 'ring'.It is getting late now & I think I had better closeso as not to miss any chance of posting. I willtry & send a series of postcards of the "Book ofthe Dead" the Egyptian Bible at the same time.The only thing I feel concerned about is that Idon't know when [I'll] get another letter from you.[[Goodnight?]] my Darling, Tom.