Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 9 November 1914 Location: Mena Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Wednesday November 9, 1914. My Darling Little Girl,If I remember rightly my last letterfinished with news that I was going toMena with the advance party. We left theAscanius about 7 p.m. & after waiting onthe wharf got aboard the train with 3 companiesof the 11th (W.A.) There were 24 of us, 6 from A companyincluding Micky Smith & Stokes of our oldtent, all in charge of Captain Hall of theSignallers. There was plenty of room inthe train & though the carriages were for only3rd class, the travelling was fairly comfortable.The Egyptian State railways run 3 classesthe lines are well laid & the guage is theEuropean standard of 4 ft 7 ins. We startedfrom the wharf at 9.10 8.10 & arrived at Cairo at1.30 am. It was a moonlight misty night;which gave the scenery we passed through aweird affect. We stopped for a few minutesat 3 stations. It was a pity it was night,but it did not prevent us guessing if notseeing what the country was like. Being the valley of the Nile it was nearlyall irrigated fields of rice, maize, sugar& [[beersem?]] The towns were weird, pure Eastern,with streets 3 yards wide & thickly inhabited.We were near enough to catch the smell, thatnecessary adjunct to all, Eastern inhabited places.We managed to get some sleep whenwe were tired of looking out. I must tell youone funny experience. Drawing out ofthe main station at Alexandria MickySmith bought a packet of cigarettes froman arab who haunt every station in droves.Sixpence was the smallest coin he haddso the exchange was made not withoutthe arab trying to pull a knife out ofSmith's hand. Micky was rejoicing overhis victory, but the joke was against himwhen he opened the packet, it was empty.We are stillm enjoying a laugh over it, asMicky had been poking fun at all of usfor being taken down at on various occasionsWe could not see much of Cairo excepta beautiful view crossing the nile just beforewe got in. We were kept at the stationfor an hour or two & had a delicious cup of chocolate (beat arcadia easily) a Viennaroll and a piece of Dutch Cheshire cheese[served to us.The station yard was alive with troops& arab trollies loading luggage. Thetrollies are extraordinary affairs aboutthe same length as our small ones, & onlyhalf the width & height. a bag of bonesthe size of a large dog represents the horse,or a sleeping dirty donkey. The driversare clothed in nightgowns reaching tothe ground, generally in rags. They tookall the luggage & to the trains about 400yards away. We boarded these & aftera short wait were whizzed out here.The trains also have 3 classes, three a first,second & third class train being coupled &run to-gether. The guage is much narrowerthan the Adelaide trains but the paceis quite as fast & the line as well laidexcept the curves which seem to be sharper& cause the trams to round slower. The drivers& conductors are Egyptian & look verysmart in their red fezs & khaki uniformsThe system is practically the same asthe M.T.T. They are run by a French company The conductor uses a little motor hornwhich he blows to start the train when itis too crowded to reach the bell.We The road out must be one of themost beautiful in the world. It islined with trees that look like (tamarisk Sycamore, all the way, the train one side under the trees & abeautiful road in the centre. a splendidbridge crosses Old Father nile before gettingout of the city. Tributaries & irrigated flatswith occasional native villages lineingthe road, which is raised, as the surroundingcountry is nearly allua under water,when the nile is in flood. Mena possesesa fine tourists hotel called the Mena HouseHotel which is now Divisional Headquarters Staff, an English chemists, a French cafe,Post Office, 3 or 4 residences and a couple ofarab mud villages in the vicinity. The camp isstarts almost from the tram terminusThe 1st (n.S.W.) & 2nd (Vic.) battalions brigades were incamp when we arrived & part of our brigade,the 9th battalion (queensland). Everything wasin the nucleus state, but the authoritieswere getting to work making roads inthe sand & laying light train rails. The site is in a declivity with the plateauof the pyramids forming one side. The greatpyramid of Cheops is 1600 yds distant fromour lines, the second largest "Khephrew" isquite close too, but we can't see the thirdlarge one 'Mykerinos' nor the Sphinx &6 smaller pyramids from here as they are moreon the other side. You will find a lotmore than I can tell you about themin the Public Library.Friday There is no mail until Monday so I willtake my time over this letter. Well to tellyou something about the camp.We arrived on Monday morning about5. After a couple of hours sleep we setto work to erect a few tents etc & knockedoff about 4. Micky & I cleared off for alook at Cairo. I will tell you about thatlater. The place was alive with niggercamels & donkeys carting baggage fromthe train, making roads & selling everythingEverybody in Egypt wants to sell somethingThe fellaheen, the lowest class of Arabs, Egyptians& the mixture, are all pedlars, at least themen, you seldom see the women Oranges, figs, dates, chocolate, cigarettes,postcards, every imaginable commodity& lots you can't imagine. They pesterthe life out of you. The camels. 'Old the'Unt'; with their outstretched necks,sour faces, ugly legs, soft springy padsand sedate walk close behind one another,loaded with mats of stone often drivenby a sore eyed child of 6. and the donkeyswith their 'boys' trotting alongside whackingthem with a stick while the purch hirerperches himself as far back as he canwithout slipping over the tail. a steamroller very much out of place snortedalong the loosely thrown stones severaltimes, sand & water thrown on, & therewas the road & a very good road too.The lightest of train lines thrown downon the sand run the full length ofthe camp in 3 vertical parallel lines& with hopper like trucks that 3 mencan push with a full load helps alot to take the tremendous traffice necessaryfor the building of a camp of 15000 in a weekWe are placed something like this The Light Horse are not in camp with us, nor theNew Zealanders. They are in other camps near Cairoabout 400 Ceylon Planters Rifle club volunteers arealso here. At present we have 7 tents per companysbut will get 12 the same, as at Morphettville.We dont need them as all sleep out. The dew is[[?it]] heavy & it rained the second night, but as wehave 4 blankets & an oiled sheet each we dont mindwhat happens. The food has been a bit scarce as yetowing to the rush, We are allowed 6 a day ration extrain lieu of jam & butter which makes things all rightas it is all spent at the canteen in these things bythe O.C. The canteen supplies everything includinggood English beer at a piastre a pint but as theit is always crowded when opened I don't see much.Water is laid on from wells in the sandhillsnative barbers are also near the canteens. A tent postoffice is attached to each bridgade, but no stampswill be available for this mail.It has mostly been fatigue work we have beendoing, forming long lines on to the plateau &passing stones down to mark battalion linesThe routine will be much the same as atMorphettville. Sunday 13th. We had a half holiday yesterday. In themorning we had a bathing parade at the MenaHouse baths. They are open air marble lined &quite large enough for 2 companies. We will getthis once a week.Well to get on to Cairo. It was wonderful, Egyptof the Egyptians, the most cosmopolitan city inthe world. Fellaheen, (arab & Egyptian) brushing shoulderswith millionaire pashas, French, Greeks, Italians,Maltese, Syrians, Abyssinians Soudanese negroesRussians, Turks, Sicilians, Spaniards, Portugese, BelgiansIndians, Armenians, natives of all the Balkan statesand every other nation you can think of. DapperFrenchmen with the very latest cut, Egyptian gentlemenin their frock coats & fezs, English officials in fezs,Mohammedan priests with their shaven heads & [[?baq]]frocks, arabs of the better class in the red pointedshoes & flowing robes of every hue. Veiled womenwith brass anklets & black robes, arab fellaheenwomen of all shapes & colours, negresses with thicklips & red tongues. Six thousand pound limousinesdodging arab sweetmeat carts, an Egyptian Boydashing past with driving a pair of superb arabs dashingpast the slowly moving donkeys. Magnificent Frenchdrapery shops lofty & wide streets, just around The corner, up a 3 yard lane & the most squalid of nativequarters, dirty, smelly, with their shops the size of abathroom & selling queer food, drinks, confectioneryand sweets dear to hearts of arab & EgyptianOh it is wonderful How I wish you werehere with me to see it all. and the cafes withchairs & tables half way across the footpath &the fez capped customers sipping their absinthe& coffee, here & there smoking hookahs & the eternalcigarette. We wandered around for hourssoaking it all in; now admiring the wonderfulconfectionery shops with the most tempting lookingpastry possible (it tastes as good as it looks) nextminute in the bazaars watching arabs of the lowest type sipping sippingtheir coffee served from big brass kettles & eatingfearful looking sweatmeats. and the variety ofthe bazaar shops, how they specialise. I sawone selling nothing but flour. The bootblackschasing you always the life pestered out of youif you happen to look at any of the vendors ofpostcards, fruit, ancient coins (manufactured inBirmingham to order) hierioglyphical mats, handkerchiefs, silks, walking slicks & canes, prawns, watches dusters, Chocolate, roasted maize, Vienna loaves,stamps, fried fish, hoop het shaped arab sugar bread,Turkish delight, and cigarettes Everything youcan think of is hawked. The variety of cigarettesI have counted as many as 38 different brandsin one vendors tray. The cabs look funny. They are openVictorias with a large moveable hoods.The policemen in their blue red & khaki uniformlook smart, then there are differently uniformedlamplighters, street cleaners, and gaffers a sort ofnight watchman & under policemen. Papers inEnglish, French, arabic & Greek are for saleeverywhere, and just to make the mixturemore perplexing soldiers swarm everywhereTerritorials, Indians, New Zealanders, Ceylon volunteersArmy of occupation, Egyptians + AustraliansI could fill pages & pages telling you of thewonderful sights but I won't weary you. How Iwant you to see it all. We had leave from 3 till10 on Thursday and went over it all again seeinglots of fresh new interest. I couldn't helpthinking all the time what a lovely place it would make for a honeymoon. I want tobe with you so much darling. It is getting harderthan ever. We have not received any letters yet.They sent a cable of inquiry to australia theother day. It is 43 days since I have heardanything from home. We are well off nowfor news of the war. The Egyptian mailpublishes some very good articles by theirmilitary correspondent.There have been several visitors to the campthis p.m. We will be well off for leave. Every8 days the whole company gets from 2 till10pm. Sunday afternoons can be spentvisiting the pyramids & country in vicinityof camp. Saturday afternoons will probablybe holidays too. There is talk of all theearly annexation of Egypt and all thetroops being in Cairo at the Proclamation.There wont be any trouble I think. TheEgyptian likes the Englishman much betterthan the Turk. They have deported several agitatorsof the young Egyptian party, I believe. They havenot much following.I did not post the cards mentioned in the last letter,I am adding some more & posting them to nightwith a few stamps for Jack. Love to allyour own boy, Tom. Reply to Adelaide Y.M.C.A. Army DepartmentPvte T A WhyteNo. 47 A Coy.10th Infantry Battalion3rd Brigade1st Australian Division Cairo Egypt MenaEgypt