Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: on the 'Strand', the shops atthe back of the lines, from 'Retreat'to 'Reveille' only so I have hadmost of to-day to myself. There isgreat activity, preparation to strikingCamp. I believe we are taking ourtents with us. There has been freshissue of nearly all clothes. I believewe are to get caps the same as thesecond contingent. I have 4 pairsof boots now which I managed to getby gentle engineering. The onesI had at Morphettville are as goodas new in spite of two being twicesoled. It will be a job to pack mykit bag. Four shirts, two cap comfortors1 dz Hkchfs. 2 singlets lined with wool6 pairs of socks and everything elseissued.There doesn't seem to be much freshin war news. The Russian retirementout of East Prussia was expecteda month ago in highest militarycircles. I am enclosing a cuttingthat may interest you.We are going on leave to-morrowSunday. We are off at 7pm tonight march to Cairoentrain at 11 & reach Alexandria early. A few more ships have arrived & we are all readyfor departure but nothing seems to be knownof when we are to be off.Wednesday An opportunity offers so Goodbye forthe present.Yours everTom.Wednesday Evening Aprril 14, 1915 I missed the opportunity mentioned above butmay just possibly get another better one to-morrow.I missed the last by 10 minutes so you canimagine how disappointed I am.A mail closed to-day so I wrote you a shortnote C9. There was nothing to say so I am afraidyou will be disappointed at your birthday letterfor it ought to reach you about May 23. I onlyhope this reaches you at the same time.I am so sorry I shall not be there. I thought Iwould sure to have been, last October. This warseems to be proceeding very slowly. Still I thinkit much better that the Allies evident purpose,of making it a war of attrition & saving thousandsof lives is worth all the waiting.An English mail arrived yesterday & Fisher gottwo copies of Land & Water. The articles arevery interesting.We have not been kicked out of the 9th OrderlyRoom yet though it may happen tomorrowmorning. The 10th are embarkingon the 'Ionian' destination unknown. We had our leave yesterday. We managedto get up a team to play the Englishmen.Some of the best players could not go& their places had to be taken by 5 veryraw mugs. I suppose I will have to blamethem for our horrible licking of 20 to 6.The Terriers played a very fine game& I can quite believe they would beatany team left in England. I was selectedas captain. The Terriers had the advantageof us having had plenty of practice at thereown sticks. Our passing was very erratic.I managed to get 3 of the 6 goals. Inthe evening several of us dined atthe Restaurant Parisian and aftera short wander around came home.We struck tents at 6.30 this morning& have been straightening the place upsince. It will take us all day so Iwon't have time to write anymore.I hope we get our mail this weekbefore leavingleavin. It is quite likely wewon't leave Alexandria for a week asI believe the whole division is to go .They are calling me. Good bye for the present darling.Remember every week parted will make the reunionmore wonderful. Your loving husband Tom.