Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 23 March 1915 Location: Ionian Mudros Bay Lemnos Island Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: H.M.S. IonianMudros BayLemnos IslandMarch 23rd, 1915. I feel awfully pleased having got No 18off. It stands just a chance of getting through.As I haven't anymore duplicate books I am goingto use the back of the pages of this. When thereis a chance I will post both books.I gave Chapman a postcard saying what I haddone which I should get through even if No 18is stopped. This would be C 5. I forget to numberthe censored cards.Nothing further has happened of any importance.Some of the Castle liners went out this afternoonChapman says there are walot of British Regularsto come here from India [[Inosiskillings]] etc.He was promoted to Sergeant to-day which islittle enough considering the work he is doing.He is a son of Prof. Chapman & was in partnershipwith Goyder. They live like fighting cockson the Frankonia. We saw the privates atdinner today. Pea soup, Roast beef, cabbage, turnip, 102 potatoes & tapioca pudding. We were offeredsome but hadn't time, worse luck.The brigadier & Cap Ross had lunch aboard but we had to come back with LieutHolmes & call again the afternoonWe had a trip to the Hussar after warnews & round the brigade fleet this eveningwith orders. The wind has gone downConsiderably. Last night was pretty coldOut the north wind no doubt.It is funny reading the Turkish talesof the damages 100 to the Queen Elizabeth & thenseeing her in harbour with nothingwrong except a hole in her funnel.Our news about the Invincible was correctedto the Inflexible. She has gone to Malta.A lot of warships have come into harboursince Sunday. They seem to be takingtheir time about the job. A persistent rumourto-day was that the main Turkish fort atthe narrows has fallen. I have arrangedabout a hot bath to-night & must go sogoodnight my love. 103 Wednesday March 24th The wind still blowing fromthe North has kept the weather still cold. From thehill near the 9th landing you can see a snowcapped mountain in the distance. I heardsomebody say it was Mt Athos. The wind thelast couple of days feels as if it was blowingstraight off something like this.Half a dozen English transports went out thisafternoon including the 18000 ton Frankonia.Several men of war have gone out & somehave come in. A couple of French transportsmoved to a berth near us after the Castle linerhad gone. One is a great grey armed merchantmanBoth must be about 12000 tons each.Half of A Coy got ashore this morning at the9th landing but the boats couldnt get back,so the intended battalion route march waspostponed. We had a row ashore this morning& were the only crew to get back without beingtowed. This afternoon we took the Brigadierto the flagship for lunch & had a good timeyarning to the sailors on the Hussar &Imogene for a couple of hours. The Imogene laysalongside the flagship. She is an AdmiraltyYacht used as the living quarters by the Admiral& Rear Admirals. She was attached to the BritishEmbassy at Constantinople at the outbreak of the war. 104 The wind was at it's roughest when we were therebut arrangements had been madeto tow us back by a Picquet boat. Threeboats were towed We were in the centre.The last one was dropped at one of theCastle liners. You can imagine how thosejigs would yaw being towed at 10 knots.Well passing the Castle liner after droppingthe top rear top boat off, the picquet boat turneda bit. We kept well out from the linerwith the aid of our own rudder, but the firstboat with a strain on both ends ranis rather close. We couldn't stand upfor laughing when they got under twoports discharging bilge water. The crew wasdrenched. To completely fill their cup ofwoe when coming alongside the Ionian,they caught another ducking from thesame thing. The poor beggars had beenout since 7 this morning with no dinner.They had got straight across from the shoreto the flagship but couldn't make any head-way dead against the wind. No wonder theywere almost fighting one another. 105 Last night I had a hot bath in the officersbathroom. A [[brother]] Scot who has chargemanaged it. It looks like a regular thingnow only I must be careful not to be caught.We had curried bully stew for tea tonight.My tummy is still feeling the strainthough it is 9 o'clock.The part of A Company that got ashore werebrought back at 8 o'clock by a pinnace which hadto make a couple of trips with jigsB4 distinguished himself as usual.He had the two platoons trying to shift alarge barge that was high & dry on the beach.Yesterday a company & a half of the 9th triedto unsuccessfully. While A Coy were at itthe Colonel of the 9th strolled up. 'Who is incharge of this party' he asked. 'Major Beevor,sir' was the reply. 'I might have thought so'said the Colonel. The marvel is he nevertakes a tumble to his unpopularity.Sunday he affected his eyeglass again buthe seem proof [[of]] against all sarcasm. 106 Thursday The news about 3rd Brigadeforming the covering party has been confirmedby Major Brand to-day in a lecture to B Coy.I didn't hear it but heard from someof B Coy fellows. I am hoping it is roughto-morrow & A Coy get the lecture.I believe the 10th is to go ashore soon to campsoon for the 3 weeks before moving up.The Queen Elizabeth is still in harbourwaiting for ammunition from EnglandMajor Brand says. He also said in hislecture they [[cabled]] will to Egypt some time agofor mails & money. [[GBMecrlchion?]]It has been too rough to-day for any crewsto go off. This is a lazy life Being off all dutiesexcept the Brigadiers crew. I dont have to attendparades & when it is too rough have nothingto-do all day. One gets tired of reading & walkingabout the deck.This is the place to study human nature.You meet some rare characters among themen. One of the Brigadier's crew is the drollest I have 107 Struck for a long time He is knownas Bouff Mackey. The pronunciation of Bouff is long drawnout. I never heard a more appropriatenickname Immense round bloodshoteyes & or heavy bovine face. Pure Australianin his language. You can never get himriold & when he is barracked he comes outwith some of the drollest expressionsimaginable. Bow in the crew is knownas Windy a short nuggetty ex man of wasomenI think he is a deserter from the navy.Windy gets very sarcastic if anybody happensto tell him what to do when we are comingalongside. In his position as bow heoperates the boat hook.Another character is Scotty Murray in A Coy.His name will be go down to prosperity as the perpetratorof the 'No shave No razor' joke on Beevor. He comesfrom Goffnock, Glasgow where Aunt Lizzielives. His pet aversion is B4. When the firstletters left here, he wrote a fearful descriptionof B4 to his brother little knowing that it wouldbe the object of his letter that would censor it. 108 Of course B4 could do nothing It wouldonly be defamatory if published or returned sentto him. Scotty was up on a charge of beingabsent for 24 hours without leave at MenaHe was not tried until about a week laterWhen B4 asked him what he had to say,he bluffed B4 he that he was talkingto him the very day he was absent & detaileda conversation he had with him. He gotoff.I could go on describing characters to you forhours. It is remarkable what a lot ofglobe trotters there are in the battalionI don't believe there is a spot on theearth someone hasn't been to. Even thisharbour was visited by Windy when withthe Mediterranean fleet. One very quietchap was actually fighting in Villier's Armyin Mexico a year ago.We have just been called out to take round orders& drop a couple of officers at the SuffolkThe wind has dropped right down so it won'ttake us so long. Goodnight dear 109 Friday March 26 A mail closed today. I senta letter C 6 from which you may be ableto gather that the 3rd Brigade is to form acovering party for the landing in Turkeyin 3 weeks time.The war news to-day is reassuring containingparticulars of the 120,000 Germans & Austrianscaptured at Przemysl. The main point aboutthis is the 1/2 million besieging Russians itwill free. It serves to compare this war withprevious ones. The forces engaged in this hardlynoticed side show would be sufficient tosettle previous wars.The weather has been very fine to-day.All the battalion have been ashore exceptA Coy. We had a row to the 9th landing thismorning & a trip with the brigadier tothe Hussar this afternoon. We also took MajorBrand to the jetty.Our gallant Major B4 is now known toa few of the officers as the submarine owingto Keith Green telling them about my abbreviationof his name.Several of the French transports leftto-day for Alexandria (presumably) 110 It looks as if they were going thereto fully provision coal & water.The 3rd Brigade is the only British soldierforce here now & will probably soon bethe only military force here.I saw a lot of bacon arriving on board todayso we will have a holiday from that eternalbully.Sunday I wouldn't give up my place in the boats28th crew for worlds. It may have its disadvantagein the necessitating turning out at night but itsadvantage outweigh them tremendously.To-day we had the fortune to explore theQueen Elizabeth not only to wander roundthe decks but to actually be inside one of the turretsof those wonderful 15 inch guns. I am gettingahead of myself however as this letter seemsto have developed into a diary.We had to take Col Melkie the chaplain tothe 9th landing this morning. There had beensome talk of rowing round the Queen Elizabethif there was an hour to spare. In anticipationLieut Sexton & a couple of sergeants came inthe boat with us. I believe Sexton is some 111 relation of Louie's but I have never likedto ask him, as he seems such a silly kid.Being calm we didn't take long to rowover the two miles to where the 'Liza' layquite near the harbour entrance.We rowed right round looking in vain for thedamage the Turks claimed to have inflicted& then with our usual cheek asked if wecould go on board. The Quartermaster soonobtained permission from a couple of officersstrolling on the deck, & up we hopped notwaiting for Sextons or anybody's permission.Obliging sailors on board soon had us intow & seemed only too anxious to show useverything. The piece de resistance was theturrets I can only give you a hazy descriptionof these awe inspiring masses of steel. Theyencircle the working parts of the guns & swinground with them. The shellproof armouredelastic steel is 15 inches thick in frontyou get inside by crawling underneath &popping up through a manhole. Then you getyour breath taken away by the sight 112of the machinery inside Everything isworked by hydraulic power It is quite impossibleto attempt to describe it. The breach ofthe giant was opened for us & we had alook right up. I could have crawled rightthrough easily. The rifle of the bore musthave stood out 1/2 an inch. And then theshells. Slightly under a ton they weigh &it costs 850 including the wear & tearon the guns to fire one. Down into thebowels of the ship we clambered, bewilderedby the conglomeration of machinery. Wesaw where & how the shells were placedin the cage to be hoisted above to thegun breach. Everything was as cleanas the proverbial pin, just a bit oily butthe machinery all showed bright throughit. Unfortunately we didnt have muchtime as Sexton was waiting in the boat.We had to decline an invitation todinner & come away after a glimpse ofsome of the rooms below 113Now about the damage the Turks havetalked about. The funnels had half adozen shrapnel bullet holes in them, justthe size of an ordinary bullet. Thedeck had been renewed in a couple ofplaces about a yard square. Severalshrapnel bullet marks were showing inother places on the wooden decks andsome minor dents in the steel armour.It didn't cost the value of the shells thathit her to repair everything. Of coursea lot of shells hit her but they just bouncedback into the sea. Not a man was scratchedComing back we parted by near theInflexible which you will remember ranashore at Tenados. She didn't seem tobe much worse off than the 'Liza' &only had a steam tug in attendanceSomebody said divers were examiningher.The Albin Albion Canopus & Minerva we alsopassed close to.Only two French transports are left but 114there are dozens of supply ships in the harbour.This afternoon we took the brigadier ashoreCaptain Ross was also in attendance. Heis one of the wittiest humourists Ihave ever heard. He had the brigadiergrinning all the time. MacLagan was askinghim the meaning of several navalsignals flying. Cap Ross was described anincident on the bridge of the Ionianthe other day. She often goes up with thesignallers. About 2 miles away was an oiltank steamer. 'Who can pick out thatstring of signals she is flying' askedCap. Ross. Immediately all glasses werefocussed while Ross sneaked away.'I was going down the companion waywhen I heard the murmers' he said 'sl itwas only a string line of washing she hadstrung up the mast.'He was telling the brigadier about theRussian cruiser 'Askold' A Some friendof his on the Minevra had told himevidently. This blanky Russian doesnt seem 115to obey orders too readily. She was orderedup to the Dardanelles but didnt leaveuntil a couple of days after. When shegot there she wouldn't come outwhen ordered, & was chased out. Thenaval authorities are very amused.She had a hunt on her own the otherday & fired some shells from her little4 inchers at a quarantine station killingtwo of the Turkish patients. The Askold being veryold & obsolete it all seems rather amusingSome German spies attached to theirGreek Embassy as well as severalTurkish spies are suspected to be onthe Island.It is pitiably amusing to read the Turkishaccount of the greatest naval victorysince the Japs wiped out the Russianfleet. They claim 2500 British slain, the Inflexible suck disabled & hostsof other imaginary lies successes. The actualBritish casualties in the last engagement 116were 51. They say nothing abouttheir own losses. One shell fromthe 'Liza' exploded a magazine & killblew over 1000 Germans & Turksto Kingdom Come.In yesterdays war news a translation ofan article in a Greek paper states that25000 Australians have landed at LemnosIt points a great moral at the benefitof official communiques as conductedby the British.Flight Commander Sampson is at Tenadosin charge of 21 seaplanes. The Germans haveplaced a reward of 1000 on his head, deador alive which seems a bit low.Two Turkish seaplanes are supposedto be about, what oh' if Sampson gets achance. Truly we live in stirring timesThink of it, a visit to the B11, & Queen Elizabeth,Daily contact with the Inflexible Canopus & Albion,three boats that distinguished themselvesat the Falklands, the Foreign Legion, Tureos& Zonaves; a glimpse of heroes of many battles 117even in this war; landing at an islandthat belon doesnt seem to belong to anyone;waiting for the development of an attackin conjunction of with the French troops& an Anglo-French-Russian navy onTurkey & Constantinople. I wonder whatthe future holds? We seem to be in themiddle of the making of history .A, B,+ D coys are off on a 3 days bivouacto-morrow. Castro 20 miles distant isa place of call. Three pounds of bully, 3 loavesof bread, a blanket & oil sheet, 50 roundsof ammunition and full marching orderis the order. How thankful I am thebrigadiers crew is exempted.I read a book yesterday which I canwell recommend Christopher Hibbault,Roadmaker by Margaret Bryant. It struckme as a very powerful book though thefinish clashed through sufficient materialfor a dozen novels.We had to bring Cap. Ross from the Minervalast night after doing rounds, thats why 118there was no contribution yesterday.I was thinking last night what a terriblyprosy letter writer I am. I dont seem to beany good at expressing thoughts at all.If I could only blossom out & expressthem sometimes & get out of this terriblehabit of writing of mundane things. I dontbelieve there is a variety of 100 wordssince I started. What is most annoyingI dont see any hope.I know that you know that you areeverything to me, I am thinking ofyou constantly & only longing for our reunion,I dont like to express it again.& again in the same old ditto phrases.Sometimes I wish I were a poet.Talking of poets connects long hair whichWould be disastrous on this boat. It iswhat we call Chatty ie lousy. LuckilyI havent had a bite, but lot of the chapshave to have a hunt occasionally. Onewit was describing to me how he harboured 119a battalion of 'chats'. They were a completeforce with signallers, pioneers & all. "It wasover the odds" he continued, "when they startedmanoeuvrs & entrenched themselves " onmy chest." How do you like the word"chats" it sounds much more refined thanthe other. Goodnight my love.Monday Mar 29th The damage to the Inflexible isworse than I thought. She struck two mines buther watertight compartments saved her. Minesare generally connected by a wire so that aship passing draws them into her. Twentyone men were in the mined compartment& are still there. A lucky (for the turks) shrapnel explodedjust above the range finders' crowsnest onthe foremast. We saw the riddled roof. Fivemen were blotted out with that one. I expectshe will go on the slips at Malta & be backagain within a month.Captain Lorenzo seems confident that the warwill collapse suddenly by July. It looks likethe brigadiers opinion.We took the brigadier to the Suffolk this morning. 120He is not going on the route march. Theofficers cracked hearty this morning over theirloads but it was a delicious sight. One ofthe mens complete load was weighed thismorning, it nearly topped a hundredweight.It seems increditable.I heard a good yarn to-day which I don't knowif you will appreciate. It was told by anIrish wag who had the brogue to perfection.An Irish labourer coming home in theunexpectedly was surprised to find a manin bed with his wife. To show his disapprovalhe started knocking the furniture about& tearing off the wallpaper. "Och shure nowlook at him" said Biddy, peeping above thebed clothes "showin' aff afore the strangegentleman" The funniest part was wherethe teller put his hands under his chin withhis elbows out when he came to Biddy's speech.It was for all the world as near, as you couldget to mimicking a person looking out fromunder bed clothes. 121Tuesday Another rough day. Really this placeis fearfully erratic in its weather. We had astorm from the South 3 weeks ago, the last wasfrom the South & this is from the East.Not having anything to do in the rowing lineI have read "The Artful Miss Dill" by FrankfortMoore. I am getting quite satiated with lovenovels.Things are quite slow on board with 3 coys ashoreC Coy have been employed on guards & fatigueparties taking stores aboard. Jam, fresh meat & bully,cheese, potatoes & onions, flour bacon and sugar.We are to start on army rations the ships termbeing up. Thank goodness.It is wonderful how low your morals cansink when you are hungry for any particularfood. A lot of the stores were stacked up nearthe hold alongside our smoking room possy.It was the work of 2 seconds to whip in acase of 48-1lb tins of jam. Eight of us dividedit up & the case was dumped overboard beforea minute was up. What a feast we havehad to-day of bread & jam. I only looked onceat the bully stew for dinner. 122Several cases of jam were accidentallydropped down the companion ways up forwardwhere C Coy troop decks are. The peculiar thingabout it was that when they went downonly the broken case was visible.Fellows who saw it say it was done asneatly as anything could be. Another peculiarthing is that no bully beef is short.A large half hundredweight cheese metthe same fate as the jam but in this caseit was only a few crumbs they found. I expect there will be a noise about it butthey will be lucky if they find any evidence.Good Friday Here it is 3 days without anentry in your journal, but I have the bestof excuses. A supply boat from Alexandriacame in Wednesday having on boarda lot of Soudan cattle & 120 big bags ofmail. We were ashore at the 9th landingwhen the tug brought them in & we helpedto load them on to a barge to be taken tothe Sonian for sorting. When we got 80 123aboard the 9th orderly room was stackedup to the ceiling. Didn't the P.O. Corporalwork that evening. There wasn't roomfor more than half a dozen extra handsto work. We saw to it that Adelaide bagswere handed out first. It took Wednesdayevening & night all Thursday morning& afternoon sorting & even now missortedones are turning up. I cant attempt adescription of my feelings getting your 3letters, the two monogrammed knitted flannels& the paper. There were two letters from motherone from Linda, Tom, Freda, Feo, father, LeeJ C Richardson & Mr Bishop. I will tell youabout the others before getting on to yoursMothers were just motherly notes. Yourfathers contained a peculiar sentence '...The "_ _ _ _ _and the risk of infection; much of the latter canbe avoided by keeping away from things unclean."I was wondering if he meant anything betweenthe lines. Good heavens he must have a niceidea of his future son in law Still I wontsurge as he may not have meant anything 124Lex hasn't much to say not a word abouthis best friend It seems as if he was stickingto Newmarch & Allison. He says 'I suppose youwill take up soldiering in earnest' Not much. Toms letter is quite sentimental. I amsurprised at him.Is that true what Freda says about Mollysaying to mother that she was Mrs Brown& when asked if she had any children sayingno but that they were fond of them & weregoing to get 10 from Dr Russell. It seemsincreditable. Freda signs herself 'yourfuture Sister'. FFeo writes such short letters with absolutelynothing in them. I hope Linda has betterluck.Now for old Richardsons letter. You rememberdodging that introduction to him one day.He is a great chap & his letter is well worthreading so I will enclose it.Old Follen Bishop tells me that Mrs Bishop theelder has her usual arguments & squabbles withpoor old 'Chooks' He says he scored some successwith a picture of wattle. He has not oneAustralian picture his own property 125A mail closed to-day so I sent you a noteC 7 to say I had received everything & wouldreply next week as from the English papersI have seen I gather there is no mailleaving Pt Said between the Mooltanon March 31st & Moldavia Apr 14. Thereshould be another mail from here intime. I will write everything in here& copy what I can out from time totime. It will act as a sort of confirmationThe great surprise of all was Feo enlistingIt seemed the last thing I expected. StillI am glad in a way. You won't feel sojealous of Linda & it will do you two goodin a way. Don't think I am mean.I am sorry about Algy & still sorrier forJessie. That incident about the Freemasonsis the limit. Anna seems quite demented.I would suggest a medical examination. Poor old George.That quotation of Stewarts seems to haveworried you. He meant Feo. I think he meantit in a sarcastic way so that is why I saidtell no one. 126I am glad you received the d'oylies allrightI was frightened the collar would not befashionable but it was the only sort they hadPerhaps it could be altered or try your hand& passing it off on someone at a good price.I will keep a look out for some more d'oylies.Now when I come home I want you to meetme the first place you can. I will be looking ateveryone on the wharf until I see you. I supposethere will be some mad procession & thenyou can wait for me on the Rug. I think I willalways write it with a capital R.Thank you very much for the Cornish ash tray, butyou mustn't go spending money like that.I had arranged about a Xmas present for youbut something must have gone wrong so nevermind.I laughed over your worry of infection. We alwayshave our own blankets. Nobody has ever used minesince I joined nor have I ever used anybody elses.There isn't the slightest mark of infectionabout [Feo?] saying the soldiers will be kepton 6 months after the war. The attestationpaper you sign states that you are signed on 127for the period of the war & 4 months afterthe declaration of peace. That is necessarybecause sometimes the declaration of peace isnot the conclusion of war. Take the lastBalkan war. But of course if the peace looksalright & there was no chance of the alliesdisagreeing over it as in the Balkan warthey wouldn't keep you mobilised longerthan they could help.I would never have believed it possible thatany woman could have resisted the temptationof looking at a bankbook. You are certainly unique If you only knew what pangs that mentionof peaches caused. What wouldn't I give fora luscious ripe peach. I haven't seen onesince last year.I'm hanged if I know which is my favouriteRomulus, Remus, Phyllis or Daphne I would haveto touch them all to tell you.I like that about your first love letters. What acheek. It hurt me awfully at the time to thinkyou could let me have them & tear them up. I feel sorry I have got to the end of your wonderful for the period of the war & 4 months afterthe declaration of peace. That is necessarybecause sometimes the declaration of peace isnot the conclusion of war. Take the lastBalkan war. But of course if the peace looksalright & there was no chance of the alliesdisagreeing over it as in the Balkan warthey wouldn't keep you mobilised longerthan they could help.I would never have believed it possible thatany woman could have resisted the temptationof looking at a bankbook. You are certainly unique If you only knew what pangs that mentionof peaches caused. What wouldn't I give fora luscious ripe peach. I haven't seen onesince last year.I'm hanged if I know which is my favouriteRomulus, Remus, Phyllis or Daphne I would haveto touch them all to tell you.I like that about your first love letters. What acheek. It hurt me awfully at the time to thinkyou could let me have them & tear them up. I feel sorry I have got to the end of your wonderful for the period of the war & 4 months afterthe declaration of peace. That is necessarybecause sometimes the declaration of peace isnot the conclusion of war. Take the lastBalkan war. But of course if the peace looksalright & there was no chance of the alliesdisagreeing over it as in the Balkan warthey wouldn't keep you mobilised longerthan they could help.I would never have believed it possible thatany woman could have resisted the temptationof looking at a bankbook. You are certainly unique If you only knew what pangs that mentionof peaches caused. What wouldn't I give fora luscious ripe peach. I haven't seen onesince last year.I'm hanged if I know which is my favouriteRomulus, Remus, Phyllis or Daphne I would haveto touch them all to tell you.I like that about your first love letters. What acheek. It hurt me awfully at the time to thinkyou could let me have them & tear them up. I feel sorry I have got to the end of your wonderful budget I will read them over again inthe morning for the 4th time. Goodnightmy lovely wife.Sunday I am getting lax in my journalentries. Most of my spare time has beentaken up reading SA papers. You have noidea how interesting we find Observers& Chronicles. It seems to bring us muchmore in touch with home. It is a wonderfulsight on mail day. Everybody gloatingover letters at first & then over papers There is a sort of competition as to whogets the most letters Some ran into30 this time. I am quite satisfied withmy lot though.Nothing of any importance has happened. The 3 coys came back from the routemarch in good heart. They seem to havehad rather a good time in spite of theirheavy loads. They got to Castro in easystages & formed a guard of honour whilethe Greek flag was hoisted. I wish I hadgone. They described the scenery as beautiful 128