Author: Toms Mother Date: 10 August 1914 Location: Cortoon Nationality: Australian Text: Cortoon10th August, 1914My dear TomThough Eileenwrites you the news of ourdoings thought I would enclosea few words to let yousee you are in my thoughts.We have heard of your landingin Egypt & trust you arekeeping well. Eileen receiveda letter from you Monday.Needless to tell she was delightedto get it, indeed weall enjoy hearing of you.Freda has just brought thenews the English have sunkfour German boats. Howgloriously exciting the episode must have beengrand you should be almost in it yet lovely youexcaped in safety. VeraMaughn & her sister are hereVera much better far fromwell, talks of being marriedin January but I do not thinkshe will be well by then. Wedo not discuss war with Annanot to be surprised at Georgecollapsed had an attackof facial paralysis wasreally very ill I believe itwas purely a nervous troublecan you wonder? poor fellowI do pity him. He has just returnedfrom the Gulf trip& hopes to get to his Officenext week. My chookies are [[at?]]feed shockingly expensivewheat 6/3- a bushel. I havetwelve Rhode Islands of whichseven are roosters they areso docile we catch them& pet them. I am tired ofjam making for have madeFredas as well as our oursapricots are 10/ a case & wehave had heaps for jam &so we are fortunateThanks to the bore thelucern is just the thing, itis so hot today that whenI gave the fowls their greenfeed they audibly said"thank you". We have maizeas well as beans, strawberries,watermelons & potatoeswhich I hope will all proveprolific crops - Freda Molly& Tom returned from Grangeyesterday after a fortnightsabsence Molly still showshow Uncle Tom has gone to fight the Germans withlittle fists tightly closed -today is Grandpas 87thbirthday Mr. Champion &I are going to have tea withhim so I am writing beforeI go as its early mail tomorrow.Well dear, I notonly think of you but prayfor you I know your thoughtsturn to this spot Eileen& all of us. Jack was onlywishing you & he couldgo up the Murray thisChristmas. Love dearfrom one & allMother