Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: the forces are further apart.It struck me after reading your letter youdidn't like the idea of missing writing tome Sunday. If ever you have a chance tobe away Sunday afternoon & evening don'tlet that stop you. I would sooner youwere having a real holiday than that youshould miss it on account of wantingto write to me. I will understand. So ifyou get the chance of a week end, & wantto please me, take it & miss writing.The wind has gone down but we werenot ordered out to-day.Do you know you missed saying anythingabout Molly in your last letter.We heard to-day the Liberals had been routedin the SA elections. The news came fromLondon. It is something of a surprise tome. I haven't heard how the 6 o'clockpub closing got on. Nothing more to sayexcept Goodnight Sweetheart.Thursday night Apr 22. Well it has come at last.The Colonel said in a lecture this morningthat he expected we would be off to-morrow MenaCamp, Cairo.No 16. Feb 26. 15Friday My Dear Sweetheart,We are to move Sundayaccording to the latest 'Mulga' The ninth& 11th are not going ahead alone but the3rd Brigade. Perhaps this will be the lastletter you will get from Mena It seemsquite sad in a wayI suppose we must give up No 1 letterThat chap must have lost it or forgottenall about it. I will go over your letterbit by bit & answer your many questionsWhy do you ask about getting the Trousseauto-gether. Most certainly I want you to & dontever say or think again that it might have to be givenaway. I feel as certain of coming back wholeas it is possible to be. Moreover the moreI see of this army the better I like my chancesThere is one thing certain A Coy of the tenthwill never get the dangerous jobs to do.6 The Brigadier & Colonel are fully aware5 of our friend's incompetence. Then again4 the 10th are not the best commanded3 battalion in the brigade from what I can2 hear from headquarters and the brigadier1 is as careful as it any canny Scot can be You remember I used to hardly touch it butnow I prefer it to anything. To-night wesup had a tin of strawberry jam for supperI scored it the other day at the Hussar'sfle canteen.Patience is all the rage now Anywhereon the boat you can always find somebodyplaying. We unearthed a set of dominoes to-dayso I suppose that will be the go in the 9thOrderley room for a while.No more mail has come along yet.The Light Horse are still back in EgyptI believe & likely to stay there for a whilemuch to their disappointment you seenowadays aeroplanes have done away withmost of the cavalrys job scouting & reconnaisanceAll the British crack cavalry regiments haveat times been in the trenches. Of coursethey could do nothing even without aircraftwhen the trenches forces are so close to-getherno doubt the Light Horse will berequired when we are established in Turkey& cavalry will come into there own when.From an officer just landed fromEngland comes the news that half the Springarmy from Britain has been successfullytransported to the continent. This if truewill make our chance of getting intothe firing line rather remote for sometime.How I hate to read of you tearing up anyletters. Don't be afraid of any confusion theremany letters being in one envelope. Iabsolutely love unravelling & piecing themtogether.The Australian P.O. officials have beenvery generous. It came out in orderswhen we landed here that postageon letters had to be prepaid & this stillholds good as far as this end is concernedI was surprised in a way about the birthdaysI thought the sequence was in MarchHow I got that into my head I don'tknow. I will write a letter to your motherthis mail though I dont suppose shewill receive it until after Mar. 20It was delicious hearing of Molliesslang. She must be getting on wonderfullyquickly.I cant think who Vera Rowe is forthe life of me. I seem to know the name knock to Beefvor. If our bit is successfulTalbot Smith will make his name Firstin charge of the scouts on whom will dependnearly everything then in charge of the machineguns I reckon these two will be the mosttwo dangerous jobs. And the boy is only21 but what a chance. For your sake I amglad I am not a scout nor in B or C Coys.Goodnight my Darling.Wednesday April 21 Still inactive with nothingout of the ordinary happening. Rumourspersistently float round concerning all sortsof ridiculous ideas. Just for something todo somebody makes up some awful yarn& springs it on some simple believer & roundit goes. I have started some myself & a dayor so afterwards they have come backdistorted & hardly recognisable. Something likethis must be happening in Adelaide.Our fresh meat is exhausted so we are backon bully. I don't eat much meat nowadaysbut have a violent appetite for bread & jamyet I can't remember any girl of thatname. Perhaps she believes in Spiritualismor Bhuddism & it was in a former lifeshe missed her chance. However I don'tblame her.I have carefully read over Beansfamous letter. I have an idea therewill be trouble or lots of paper talk.It seems to create great resentment amongthe soldiers. Everywhere you hearcondemnatory opinions about it. Ona close analysis I can find very littlethat has not some truth in it butthe whole thing creates such a falseimpression. I feel sure it will do muchmore harm than good. It would begrossly unfair to publish the names ofthose sent back & the reason. If theydo there will be trouble I feel sure.Whoever the military authority is whoasked 'But do all Australians drink quiteso much' I don't know but I knowthis he is a wowser or an ignoramusDrunkenness has been comparativelyvery little in Cairo. Think of 20000men landed in a city like Cairo with plentyof money & no restraining influencesand the dop liquor to drink. It has of a land force. The position of some of the fortsin the narrows wont allow of their beingshelled except at a close range in whichthe ships have a 1/8 of the chance of hits thatthe forts have Then the mobile maskedbatteries that take up a different positionevery night & the floating mines put theodds in favour of the forts as well. Thiswar has shown that the fixed firing offortifications will go the same way asthe blunderbus. A mobile train battery capableof being masked & moved at will has everychance. Witness the holding out of Prezemysl& Verdun. Liege & Antwerp went in a fewdays. This is going to be a tough job butif Hamilton & Carden can't are willing totackle it well something's doing. Oh I wishI could tell you some of the things I know& have seen, you would marvel at theingenuity of man. This much I can hazardas far as the 3rd Brigade is concerned The 12th willbe reserve 9, 10 & 11 in that order with 10 in themiddle. B & C Coys in front & D & A Coy reserve. What aall along seemed a marvel to methat there was not much more.Any lady travelling in the last trainsto Mena would have found nothingto remark on except perhaps the crowdedmess for the roofs are crammed as muchas anywhere else. I have seen moredisgusting sights on a Saturday nightstrain to Hyde Park than I have seenon the Pyramids train.The headlines the Advertiser & otherpapers have put in tr show it upin the worst line. Bean says only1 or 2% are responsible for all thisunameable scandal. Well that is a verysmall percentage of wasters in any armyAnd the heinous crimes they have committedconsist chiefly of breaking leave Takethe 10th battalion. Seventeen were sentback in the first batch, 10 as medicallyunfit most of whom will enlist again7 as discharged ie the wasters Bean talksabout In the second batch 10 of each arebeen returned. Of these more than halfare old hands that is South African soldiers,British regulars or many men mostly of themdo joining this force as deserters & morethan half are not Australians at all. The man cannot know what fear is.The wireless on his 'plane keeps the warshipsinformed of any hidden batteries hespots & smoke bombs dropped enablesthe range to be gauged unerringly.We heard news yesterday of the destructionof 2 British submarines of the E classThe appear to be too big for the work requiredThese two were trying to get within strikingdistance of some shore submarine tubeswhen they were stranded. Sampson keptthe Turks well out with bombs whilethe crews were rescued without mishap.He then settled the subs with a couple ofbombs.Jane hit the nail on the head in Land& Water of Apr 3rd when he surmises the chiefdifficulties of the Dardanelles as the mobilebatteries. The great error most people fellinto when the outer forts were reduced so quickwas that it would only be childs play tosettle the rest. Now it is a job that can'tbe tackled by the Navy without the assistance This is I believe about the same as in thesame as in the other battalions. Someof the wasters' would be the finest soldierin the 'world in the firing line butbecause they have more than oncebroken leave for longer than a daythey are classed as deserters and afterbeing o kept in detention here forperiods varying from 7 to 28 days arereturned. One man as an instance fromour company. Scotty Robertson a fivefoot six nuggetty chap immensely popularwith officers & men especially with Major Nurconfor whom he would do anything. Fourteenyears in the Black Watch is Scottys recordWhen he was on parade no neater, smarter,more soldierly man could be found anddrill, he was a picture to watch. ButScottys only fault was booze. A few drinkssent him over & then arose his violentdislike to policemen. Luckily he to neverdid any harm as the Redcaps know howto deal with fights. He didn't reckon thenative policemen worth calling such.Our "old woman" got her say' at last(though Harcombe was heard to sayhe wished he had a regiment of Scottysand Scotty is going to Australia to What a touch of pathos is in the story one ofthe Oceans crew told me of a sailor on theIrresistible When the latter was sinking hemanaged to bring off his canary. He withothers were transferred to the Ocean onlyto sink again. The man & canary arestill alive & well.Then there are ships that took part in thefight in Heligoland Bight, Falkland Islands,sinking of the Blucher & submarine destroying.I have spoken to men who helped inthe defence of Antwerp, men who retired from monsin the most wonderful rearguard actionthe world has ever seen, advanced to Ypres,that battle that will rank Sir John Frenchwith any general & the British infantry asthe finest in the world & the B11 heroes.Sampson is a wizard. I believe he insistson going up every day more as a constitutionalthan anything else. He can get too high fortheir guns but still be of use in observingHe has been known to loop the loop whena shell has exploded near, drop a bitto garrison he was hit & after droppinga few bombs as souveniers doffed his cap. hop into the next contingent byhook or crook. This case is not peculiarI am firmly of the opinion thatthe heads who are responsible forthis returning are poor judges ofhuman nature. There was a realrotter in this battalion who got 12months in the Malta gaol (whichwill not be unfamiliar to him) forhitting Froggy Oldham. He was a cockneyregular & joined as a deserter.The slovenly appearance of some menis easily accounted for by the sloppy& only uniform we had. Every manhas always been critically inspectedbefore going to Cairo but if his one &only uniform has been showing theresult of 5 months constant wear,who is to blame. It is all not aboutold soldiers showing off. This aloneshows Bean off as being unreliable.I have spoken to lots of veterans, we have4 in A Coy who could be relied on foran opinions worth having as to why most offenders are old soldiers. Our SergeantMajor who has been a soldier all his life& seen more than one campsaign putthe position this way. When a recruitjoins the Regulars discipline of the hardest first to the Minnewaska then the Hussar thenhunting for a supply ship for a couple ofdrums of dynamo oil for the Ioniansdynamos. While we were alonside the supplyship a gig full of Russian sailors from theAskold were taking off flour. They are aclean limbed fair featured type. One I noticedhad a slight Tartar type of face. I rather likedthe look of them.I had a swim off the stern to-day but itwas too rough to enjoy it much.It struck me to-day what opportunities existfor a journalist in this place if the censorwould allow it. There are a few sailors onboard who will assist in the landing somefrom the Reliance & some from the Ocean.The Reliance has been in action more timesthan any warship existing. She took a prominentpart in the bombardment of Tsing Tao. Thenthe Ocean was in the Persian Gulf affairafterwards taking part in the Suez Canal defence& then sinking after being practically sacrificedto draw the Dardanelles forts fire so thatthe masked batteries could be discovered sort is down on him from thefirst hour If he is any good it mayslacken but the discipline is there as ifthe commanding officers judgement inknowing how to deal with men.In this force it was quite the oppositeDiscipline was very slack at first& gar tightened spasmodically andthe officers did not know how todeal with men. These old soldiersof the unsteady sort took advantageof any licence & the heads dontnot knowinghow to deal with them have resortedto discharging them & inspiringarticles like Beans to shift the blameIf things are no worse than in anyother army (from what I hear we areangels to streets above the Canadians) why doall this harm by these flaring headlines. Do they imagine they will improvethings this way? If they do I knownothing about human nature.They sent a circular to the secondcontingent on their arrival atPort Said which accused us of scandalsin a similar stream to Beans letters. When theylanded they found most of itto be record exaggerated & what was The Minnewaska a 15000 Atlantic linerwith A & H of Army Corps headquarters onboard has 4 or 5 alleged Turkish spies onboard. They were arrested on the island.I don't know the particulars.There is a rumour that operations are suspendedfor a fortnight. We may know to-morrow.Tuesday Apr 20 An unexpected mail lobbedlate last night. About one this morningRoy White threw over a couple of letters for meYours of the March 19th one from Lex. There wasonly 2 bags but more is expected to-morrowso I may get further. I can't understand howmy letters could have missed the mailso consistently You should have receivedNo. 13 by Mar 13 then each previous one seemsto have been a week or fortnight late.I answered your letter to-day in C10. Thismail is going to the A&H of Army Corps headquartersboat to-morrow so it may be going to Egyptby a transport.Yesterday & the day before were dead calmbut to-day was too rough to go out.We had a long pull yesterday afternoon the result. They were more 2nd contingentdrunks in Cairo their first week oflanding, than in the first week ofthe landing of the first, 3 times theirnumber.Then these unmentionable diseases. Egypthas been notorious for venereal diseasesince history began. The many ancestorsof these people were the ones who helpedto introduce syphillus into Europethrough the Crusaders. They are supposedto be under control of the authorities& medically examined but they are not.The semi respectable demi-mondes seem to be the worst& the result is that the proportions ofofficers bitten is as great as the men.These diseases can be prevented to a certainextent, but the authorities did not takesteps in time.Well I feel much better having got allthis off my chest At any rate you willbe able to size up the truth of Beans orany other article for yourself.I am enclosing 2 photos taken atlast Sunday's lacrosse match. Thegroup is the 10th battalion team & readingfrom left to right show Top Du Rien(referee) Edwards, Whyte, Nott, Gordon, Edwards The tucker is still fair. We havent hadto open any bully for a long time. I noticeda peculiar flavour in the boiled muttonto-day & discovered afterwards it was goat.I suppose they have exhausted the Soudan bullocks& couldn't get enough sheep on the island.We are still in the 9th Orderly room & notalk of having to move. Plans must havebeen altered.I reckon it will be a world's record will beestablished in weight carrying when we landOur ammunition pouches are full 150 roundsin addition we have 50 rounds in our haversackBesides the usual luggage 3 days rations arecarried (biscuits & 3 tins bully) and 2 daysemergency rations (2 tins bully, biscuits &2 little tins containing tea, sugar & enough oxo for 2 cups.)A waterproof sheet is strapped on the pack, inmy case 2 so I will be right if it rains.The whole equipment with rifle must weigh100lbs. Once we are established packs willbe taken off but it will be hard workclimbing hills with that load. & Blackburn. Bottom row Kent, White AH,White RN, Gower, Fordham & Rhodes. Theduet is supposed to represent me ina characteristic attitude 'hummingcigarettes' I am not quite as blackas the photograph would have you believe.You can just see the a Mena tramin the background of both. The treesare on the Pyramids road. We couldnot show the do. as a backgroundon account of the position of the sun.I got hold of some interesting particularsof the fighting on the Canal. MajorBrand & some other officers went downto have a look round afterwards &this is from his lecturette to #4Platoon whom he happened to come acrossin the desert. We have been told quite a lot about ourplan of attack etc. but it is not advisableto commit any of it to paper. I was rightin what I said on page 40 about B4.More than this I cannot tell you just now.The 'Cecilia' an army hospital ship is lyingquite close to us. Australian nurses of the1st Stationary Hospital are onboard. Whenalongside the other day I made enquiriesabout Gay Burns but she is not theres.Last night & this morning we have hadrows to the Malda at the other extremeend of the harbour about 4 miles. Luckilyit was dead calm.The harbour was a beautiful sight lastnight. With only the men of war in darkness& the lighted portholes of the transportsshowing reflections in the dead calm wateryou can imagine what a sight it was.You lose all sense of proportion of the sizeof ships with these great 15000 tonnerskicking around. Even the Ionian, 9000 tonslooks small beside them & yet she is2000 tons larger than the Kyarra or Kanowna. The British forces pumped water fromthe canal into the low lying ground shown insketch as A&B (shaded) rendering attackon Kantara only possible where our forceswere most strongly entrenched Y-Z.The first attack took place at 3.26am butwas easily repulsed. At exactly the sametime a Turkish force of unknownstrength advanced right up to the canalto a point marked X between Ismailia& Toussum & launched galvanized ironboats. The fighting at this point was veryfierce for a time but in the end theenemy were repulsed (this is evidentlywhere that strategy described in a previousletter was shown by our forces).Had they brought forward their 25000troops in reserve about 6 miles awaythe issue may have been different.There is some who believe the reserverefused to go forward.The boats were used by the Turks hadbeen dragged across the Sinai Deserton sledges by relays of men.Wonders will never cease. The secondlot of 'wasters' were to have embarkeda week a go but the boat was notready. The were all sent to Abbassia Sunday Apr 18I feel mad with myself for missing that goldenopportunity of sending you this book. The Osmaniehwas going back to Alexandria with kitbags,sick etc. Chapman went with her as also didLieut Robley who is going back to Australia.Chapman had left the Ionian 10 minutesbefore I heard & the boat was gone thenext morning. I will have to wait & chancean engineer friend on the boat though perhapsit may be months before he gets a chanceto post it.Although we seem to be nearer departing sinceI last wrote we really have no definite knowledgeof when we leave. It is 7 weeks to-day sincewe left Mena so to-morrow we will havebeen 49 days on the Ionian exactly as longas we were on the Ascanius..Time has passed much the same the lastfew days as before. Yesterday evening wemoved right out near the mouth of theBay. The harbour seems nearly full. There mustbe close on 100 transports, supply ships & men of war 3 or 4 days ago & placed under watchthere. Half an hour ago Scotty turnedup here & made straight for MajorHurcombe who has promised to dohis best for him. He only heard yesterdaywe were to move soon. However he brokeaway goodness only knows.'Ah thought Ah wud be able to kill afew more Germans if Ah wint wi thisforce insted of ha'ing to gaw to Australia& back' he explained to the Major.What a character he is.We are still in the dark as to ourdestination or actual date of departure.Since writing on Tuesday the war newsunfolds yet another likely objective.I'm in Constantinople. If the Alliesintentions are serious & a Russianattack is really intended on the Dardanelles an Australian landingparty from the side would possiblybe a help. Still what's the use ofall this surmising. You will knowlong before this reaches you I expect.A&B Coy did all the Divisional guards& fatigues instead of the 9th Battalionfor the 24 hours commencing 5pmyesterday. I caught an easy guard. Had quite a hard day to-day. Went ashorethis morning & been round to severalboats this afternoon & across to the Malda aftertea. We have practically been at it all day.When the wind is favourable we use a sailin the boat. Black kit bags had to be handedin to-day. I think they will be sent toEgypt where our base will be for thepresent instead of here. Water & landingdifficulties decided against Lemnos I believe.If we make sufficient progress in TurkeyI expect the base would be moved to there.I put all your letters in my kit bag. Thereis plenty of room there & the opportunity ofreading them over again on the way homeis worth all the risk of losing my bag.Well here we are no forrader' than when Istarted No 19. Oh I wish it was all over &I could be with you on May 24th. Still what'sthe use of wishing for the moon. I am justgoing to finish up with Goodnight my Darling. Tom.