Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 5 December 1914 Location: Alexandria Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: H.M.A.S Ascanius AlexandriaSaturday, December 5, 1914. My Darling Little Girl, Getting nearer our destination at last.We are bound for Meenah Mena or some placenamed like that right near thePyramids about 9 miles from CairoWe are to bivouac, that is, camp in theopen. We left Port Said yesterday afternoonabout 4, after staying outside the harbourfor a couple of days. It is difficultto remember what days certain thingshappened on, they all seem the same. Forthe life of me I couldn't tell you whatday we left Aden or Suez. It was a stirringday we had in Port Said before we moved outto the anchorage . We were right at theend of the line & nearly all the ships passedus at intervals of a quarter of an hour.We had the band going & cheered eachone as they passed quite close. We madeenough noise to scare any disloyalEgyptian within 5 miles. The N.Z transportsand the Orvieto went straight to Alexandriawhile the other boats were with us at the anchorage. Another batch went off Thursdaynight & the remainder yesterday. We areanchored in the harbour. Only 5 boatsat a time can disembark, hence the delay.Our turn comes tomorrow or Monday.There must be over 30 German & Austrianmerchantmen in the harbour. of Witha French battleship a British cruiser, coastingsteamers & ketches a mail boat or two and thetransports it presents quite a busy appearanceover a hundred vessels I should say.We can't see much of the city as we are thewrong end, what we can see looks quitemodern. The harbour is an artificial oneabout 3 miles long & 1 mile wide.I liked the look of Port Said. There wasnothing of the dirt you hear & read of tobe seen. I am sending you some booksof post cards as well as some loose ones.It caused quite a surprise to the officersbeing ordered to Egypt. I feel sure it wasnot the original intention of the authoritiesIt may have been when we left Australia.Possibly it was waiting to hear see Turkey'sintentions that caused the postponement of our departure that first time. Thereis some talk of 80 000 Territorials & Indiantroops being in Egypt if so we ought tobe sufficient to prevent any risingof Egyptian & Turks. It is all bunkumabout a Turkish army marching overland.The power of declaring a holy war amongthe Mahommedans in Egypt rests withSheikh Elislam who doesnt quite hit itwith the head shebang in Constantinople& as the average Egyptian knows whichside his bread is buttered I don't thinkthere will be much trouble here.I have been getting a good deal of informationabout Egypt from a corporal of the A.M.C.whom I have chummed up with. He has hadsome remarkable experiences. He rowedin the first schools race on the Torrensfor Caterer's school against St Peters, beforeI was born. Davoren is his name & hispeople live at Crystal Brook. He went toschool afterwards in England & enlistedin the Royal Army Med. Corps in theGold Coast Raid. He went through theSoudan campaign & has the Omdurman medal. He was then appointed sergeantinstructor in the newly formed EgyptianArmy. He spent about 10 years in Cairo& the Soudan. None of the British instructorswere allowed to go to the Boer war so hemissed that. It is difficult to get himto talk much but when he does it isworth listening to. You meet some rumchaps in the Army.We continued the sports yesterdayafternoon. Only the tug of war wasdecided. A Coy were beaten by thefianfinal winners by 1 inch. It was thebest go of the day & we are anxiousto meet them again in spite of theybeing able to give us a stone all round.They are near all Broken Hill minersor policemen.MENA Menah is a small village on the Plateauthe Pyramids are situated on and the trainterminus for the service to the Pyramids.It The spot the division will be campedon has been a camping ground atvarious times for the Egyptian ArmyIt is a hard sandy soil the corporal tells me.I suppose we wont see much of Alexan-dria when we land. The trains runright on to the wharf we will dischargefrom. The New Zealanders will be stationedat a place between Cairo & AlexandriaI hear. We hear very little of how thewar is progressing. We got one or twopapers at Port Said but none here.They won't allow any bum boats nearus worse luck. I saw several to-daywith some very nice oranges on.The tucker is not quite as goodas when we started but still streetsahead of Morphettville. There is onedish I absolutely long for, ham & eggs.I haven't tasted them since we left.It is no wonder sailors always rushthem when ashore. I feel like having6 serves the first chance I get.I am sure this boat is fated. Lastnight we were awakened by thesiren & the sound of reversed engines.I sat up half asleep waiting for thealarm bell to ring, but as it didn't I went to sleep again. Some boat crossedour bows rather closely.I am disappointed with the present viewof Alexandria. I want to see everythingEastern instead of modern & palatial.[*Sunday afternoon*]Great excitement. We are going into thewharf at 4 o'clock. I have been pickedin a party of 6 from each companyto proceed to Cairo immediately to actas advance baggage guard or something.We have to be ready very soon soI will close this letter on the chanceof being able to post it soon. I don'tknow anything about the mails.I will write by the next mail.Good night little girl. With great love fromTom. T. A. Whyte No.47 A Coy 10th Battalion3nd Brigade1st AustralianDivisionEgypt