Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 22 January 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo.January 22nd, 1915.My Darling Little GirlAnother letter day has come& gone, with it, your Christmas Eve letter,a couple of Henley programmes & a letter fromJack O'Connell. I haven't heard from Campbellyet, but as he was in Sydney at Xmas I supposeit will be a fortnight or so before I hearfrom him. I can't understand why youhad not received my Colombo or Adenletters by Christmas Eve. From the Adelaidepapers, I gather both had been delivered;the former some time before. I supposeit is all right by now, but I admire youimmensely for not complaining. You area brick for you must have known otherpeople had received letters. The long letterI wrote before getting to Colombo I gaveto a chap named Topliffe just as he was& has returned here. He was a reserveofficer for the Black Watch. He wastelling his Platoon some of the warnews he had gathered from officerson their 72 hours furlough from thetrenches. The French will have nearly4 million men for the Spring Army.Nobody knows how many recruitsare in training in England excepta few War Office officials. The mainthing is they have quite as many asthey will need. The Allies are notmaking any serious attempt of advancing,being satisfied to keep the Germansin check at present. General Joffreconsiders he could finish the warin a couple of months but at a greatersacrifice of life than he hopes bytaking his time. If all this is truethings are indeed rosy. I have no reasonto doubt it. Of course it is possiblethat the war may continue over thesummer but it would only be becauseof the Allies value of life.Major Brand read us some verybeing sent back as we all thought.he was sen detained on the Orvietountil we reached Aden when he with others wasinvalided home. They probably reached interesting extracts from the WarOffice reports this week. The Germansare showing extraordinary braverywhen advancing in column of fours,half a battalion will be wiped out; butanother takes its place immediately.General French considers we havenothing to learn from the German orFrench methods of advancing infantry.You will remember ours is to advancein extended order, the troops takingadvantage of every possible cover,plenty of which exists in the presentwar zone. German prisoners say itis particularly hard to see the British long enoughto aim. Ghouls or marauders areplentiful behind the battle line.The scum of all the great cities ofthe world is reckoned to be there,especially from America. They robthe dead & wounded of rings & valuables.Their shrift is short when caught.The Germans have spies joining inwith Allied troops when formingup after an engagement. They havebeen caught signalling in the trenchesIt is very difficult to detect them astheir English & French is so good. TheBritish have adopted the plan ofasking every 4th or fifth man, thenames of men near him, and ifhe knows them. They do this everythird or fourth night.The atrocities committed by the Germansin Belgium, Gen. French considers, tohave been somewhat exaggerated.Belgian women and non combatantshave been sniping at German Troops,after being warned about the penalty,which is death. Of course this does notexcuse some of the German atrocitiesbut such are likely among any mostarmies under certain conditions.There are a few photos floating about of Phil & hisbride on their way from the officersmess to their taxi, I will try & securesome to enclose. Phil came backTuesday evening. When going throughthe cheering troops the rain of ricewas tremendous. He was heard off & went out about 7, practisingnight marches & manoeuvres & lastnight entrenching. The brigadierhad a tour of inspection & we gotspecial praise. The day route marchingwill probably be next week.Our bath day has been altered to Friday.I take a complete change withme, even if my u.c. are not what Iconsider dirty enough for changing.There is a shower so we manage tosoap ourselves properly.There is quite a bazaar now at the endof the brigade lines. First comes a postcardshop, then the 4 canteens, one Beer, onelemonade, icecream & cakes & 2 grocery;then a barber, haberdashery, washing,jeweller, fruit shop, watchmaker, anotherhaby, another barber, tailor & bootmaker,(peculiar combination), yet another haby,a photographer, barber, photographer who developes& prints your own photos, curio shop, barber, anda nickelling shop. They are all roughlymade of matchboard & under brigadesupervision. I had a shave, haircut & shampoo today in a shop fitted upas good as a suburban barbers. A cleantowel & antiseptically treated instrumentsis compulsory. And all for 2 piastres.I think it is much safer on activeservice, than in Australia. Therehave been much less deaths proportionatelyin the Division in Egypt, than in Australia.When I hear of Rex Thomas's death &a soldier being run over by train I thinkAustralia looks a good place to be out of.I had given up all hopes of the commissionscoming off until this morning when wewere asked to fill in the service applicationforms. I included a few lies which theyhave no chance of finding out but dontfeel the slightest qualms. Other than thisthere have there is nothing further to report.That p.c. photo of Molly is a dear. Shelooks extraordinarily cheeky, I wonderwhat mischief she was thinking of atthe time.Sunday We had our company leave yesterdayafternoon. I spent a couple of hoursin the museum of Egyptian AntiquitiesThere was only time to see half of itmost Cairo guide books describe it in detail.The halls are immense & all of stonework.It was most interesting. The mummiesare in halls all upstairs The chief oneis Ramses . It has been unwrapped & thecloth placed back, covering everything exceptthe head & neck. Just a skeleton with theblack muscular & skin covering. There werehundreds of similar ones with both stone& wooden sarcophagi. It is difficult todescribe the expression & impression oftwo immense sitting figures placed inthe biggest hall. I dont know what heightthey are , but a life sized statue between themdoes not reach past above their calves.The Jewell Room was entrancing. I sawthe original of the necklet I sent you,or as near as I could get to it. The oneI mean belonged to Princess Khaumuit and hadall the charms on yours, with several otherstones. The enamelware of the lotus bloomswas exactly the same. I had no ideathe ancient Egyptians were sh such expertenamellers There were some wonderful examples of it. The thin gold ornamentslooked as if they had just been beateninstead of 4000 or 5000 years old.In one of the mummy rooms were someglass cases of food, left in the toombs.Bread, dates (only the stones left), raisins,haunches of venison & several other thingswe could not recognise. We were ata great disadvantage not having a guideor guide book. Next Saturday I will makesure of both.Later Gay Burns with another nurse hasjust been over to see me. They She isquartered at Mena House. All theKyarra lot have been stationed at inEgypt. Some at Maadi, some at Zeitun& Heliopolus. They didn't stay more thanhalf an hour, going over to the pyramids.She asked me to send her love to all ofyou.I forgot to tell you when describingthe additions to our lines that 3 immensepicture houses are nearing completion.One is immediately in rear of our 'bazaar'alongside the Y.M.C.A. The others areover near Mena House. They all each lookcapable of seating as many as Wests.Ours is called the 'Cenen 'Pyramids Cinema'the others 'Pathes' & 'Empire'.There was something in the Registerdescription of the wedding that might be misunderstood.If I remember rightly it conveys the impressionthat Miss Honeywill hurried out here & gotmarried just preparatory to Phill going intoaction. He intended to get married inEngland before leaving S.A.A nigger has just brought in a programmeof the pictures which are to start to-night. I am enclosing it. It was to have openedlast Thursday.I am mounting guard at 5 o'clock. We stay on till 5pm tomorow so thisletter won't be as long as last week's.A short & severe form of influenza hasbeen prevalent lately. Jose was pretty badwith it a while ago. It starts with acold & a very high temperature. This lastssometimes a day only, sometimes 2 or threethen it drops to normal & they are outof hospital in a day or two. Pneumonia mostly in a very mild form has atbeen more common than usual. Therewas one death with it in from the 12th(Tasmania) the other day. There has beenno Typhoid or Smallpox, very diseasesvery common in Egypt. I supposeyou have seen Sir Frederic Treves reporton Typhoid at the front. Two hundred& twelve cases among half a millionIt is miraculous. Think of the thousandsthat died of it the S. African war. You ought to get DrBarkly Boll [[an?]] to do you. It only means a sore arm fora day. The second dose you dont feel.I myself am feeling very fit. Except fora bit of a cold sometime ago. I have neverbeen the least bit out of sorts.I finished reading Dr Graves bookon the 'Secrets of the German War Office'to-day. It is very interesting. You wouldprobably like it if you could get hold of it.He was in Truro, S.A as a doctor some years back,probably spying. This is the only book Ihave read since landing in Egypt. Otherthan the papers in the evening theredoesn't seem to be much time. There was a mess up over the photosI would not take some awfully mountedcaricatures they had ready so they have toprint some decent ones by next week.Don't bank too much on them as youprobably won't recognise me.The 3 months I have been away seemmore than 12. I build castles in the airevery day about the reunion. When I getback I am not going to think of workfor a month & you will have to havea month's holiday even if it meansthe sack. We will go to the hills the beach& all our old haunts & not visit a soulfor that month. I think it will be worthall the time we have been parted.I am so gal glad I have your photo. It is notgetting knocked about much as I keep ittied up with my writing things, between twoboards. The package fits into my pack nicely& makes it a good shape without taking muchroom. I will have to close now. GoodnightDarling. I love you dearly & will love youalways. Your own boy[y?]Tom.