Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 10 January 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo. Sunday, January 10, 1915. On Wednesday I receivedyour letter posted on Dec 10thIt was lovely, only I felt quitewild when I read you had tornup some you had written.Please send as much as youcan, you can't imagine how muchI long for it. What I want isa letter once a week that willtake 2 hours of each eveningto read. I felt quite envious ofSmith getting a letter with30 pages. None of the letters sentto England from 5 Nov to 28 Novhave arrived yet. I have seena Xmas Chron. & Observer butno other papers. I believe they havestopped all papers from leavingAus., so perhaps we wont see anyfor some time. I have replied toStewart's & your Aunts letters.Sorry to hear that about Uncle Geo. It is a most awful fooking thingI don't like you being so much byyourself Cant you find someoneto go to lunch with everydayI had my photo taken on WednesdayThey will be ready this week butI am afraid I wont be able to getin until Saturday or Sunday.I wish this wretched war was overso I could get back. Dont worryabout me being away for yearsas soon as it is over I am hotfoot back to Australia not evena trip to England will tempt me.I am simply living for the dayI can land back in S.A.We have had rather a tryingweek. Several days there has beena very strong South West windblowing which makes it veryunpleasant in the desert. The sandgets in your eyes mouth ears & nose& nearly chokes you. Friday nightWe A Company out on Outpost untilbreakfast time Saturday & to-day I am Battalion orderley.Outpost work is providing protectionfor troops when camped. Generallyone-sixth of the entire force areengaged in it & hold pointsof advantage during the nightThe system is like this. In theafternoon the company or whateverforce is chosen march out 2 or3 miles & entrench themselvesThe positions are like a spidersweb gradually thinning downto 4 men sentry groups on theextreme edge. In war time cavalrywould do the scouting in theouter ring. The position generallytaken is like this.4 is the main body being protectedof course they would have individualsentries at different posts. 3 is thetrenches of supports sleeping withone or two sentries. 2 is the picquetwith a couple of sentries the restlying asleep in trenches. 1 is thesentry groups generally 3 men & an.c.o. also enttrenched h with onlyone sentry on watch at a timeThe picquet position is generallythe line of resistance so if thesentriyes groups are attacked suddenly they aregenerally unable to fall backso they are protected from thefive of the picquet by mounds atthe back as well as front. Ifthe attacking force is too strongfor the picquet the supports rushover & if too strong for thecombination the main body hashad time to prepare itself.We were kept busy during thenight by changing positionswith One Platoon would be supports for a few hours &then change with the picquet& so on so that we got a littleof everything except sleep.In actual warfare the mainpoint would be to have aslittle movement as possible& as few men as possible notasleep. When the outpost bodymoves out a screen of issent out in front of it to seethe enemy are not observingthe positions of the posts.Even moving patrols are doneaway with except just an hour beforedawn when a small one movesout & reconnoiters while thewhole force stand to arms.That is because then is themost likely time of attack.It started to rain severaltimes during the night notenough to discomfort us butwelcome on account of layingthe dust. Saturday we had our weeklyswim which we look forwardtoo. We don't get dirty here likeat Morphettville & there aresplendid washing conveniencesqu in the lines. I dont knowwhether I told you water waslaid on right through the camp.It is stored in two greatconcrete, reservoirs one eachon the hills each side of thecamp. On Tuesday one burstnear the top. Luckily therewere no men sleeping in thetrack of the rush of water butsome artillery were just aboutburied in the sand and partsof the roads were washed awayIt has made no differenceto the supply.Shooting practise was postponeduntil next week.They have altered our leaveagain. Half the battalion onSaturday & the other half on Sunday. We probably wont beoff until next Saturday. Thenthey have changed the dutiesAll fatigues, guards, & orderlywork is done by one platooneach day. Our turn was to-dayso we wont get it again for16 daysA big shed is going up fora brigade canteen. The contractorfor the old canteen a well knownBritish firm, has been veryunsatisfactory through over-charging for groceries. They haveonly been able to get over thecontract now and we expect greatthings from the new onerun by the military authorities.I posted a small book of viewswhich struck me as characteristicand the chocolate tin withhalf the chocolate & some postcards. The tin is quite anartistic one & well worthkeeping. We had a surprise for dinner today. Large tinnedplum puddings from subscribersto the Daily Mail Fund! They Itwere was delicious & plenty ofthem. They It seemed the finestI have ever tasted.Phil Robin's girl & her motherarrived yesterday. He has beenlucky enough to get leavepractically every evening he wantsto. They had letters of introductionto the Colonel and some a couple of thehigher heads. They came outto day to see the Colonel &when he invited them toafternoon tea he in theofficers mess poor Philhad to stay out! It seems awfullyridiculous doesn't it, but wedon't think it half so much now,as we would have before we wereTommies. I suppose it is quitenecessary from a strictmilitary disciplinarian pointof view I have thought of a fewimprovements of in our codeand while the opportunity lastswe might improve them. Whatdo you think of the followingsuggestions. As the use of the negativein connection with "rumour" doesnot get over the difficultyof any censorship of namesof places, how about this?In a general letter the informationI specially want to convey willbe found by taking noticeof letters or words written inback hand For instance inthe rest of the letter I willshow the following sentence"not leaving Egypt for 2 months"I want to warn you about the photo.I am sure you will not like ita bit. I have grown a wee apologyfor a moustache. I will tell youlater on why. I intend gettingone taken without it whenI get some money. Perhaps I will have sufficient nexttime I am in town. For anordinary sized cabinet theywant sixty piastres for 6 or20 p.t. for one Most of thephotographers are French andthey are fairly numerousThat little bit has been verylaborious watching for theletters.I have one little bit of deliciousnews I have received for thelast. The War Office has askedfor a few Australians of theright sort as officers forthe unimportant parts ofthe Spring Army. The conditionsare that they must be privatesof a gentlemanly stamp orsomething to that effect. Theyhave kept it very quiet.Major Beevor spoke to ourselect 7 & promised to recommendSmith Stokes Fisher Blackburn& myself. Robin & Jose are not anxious for variousreasons but we five are.As far as I know only4 others, from Cap Oldhamscompany, have been recommendedHow many they exactly (in the Tenth) wantI don't know, or what chancewe have we can't find out.I am not building muchhope on it however, I learntonly too well not to do thatafter leaving Andersons.There is some satisfactionin knowing that you arethought enough of to berecommended. Don't tella soul of this unless youhave received a cable beforereading this. It would entailgoing into a special instructionclass either here or in EnglandI feel half sorry I have toldyou as by the time this reachesyou you will either have had a cableor it will all be off. Well I want to write a letterto Feo & Campbell & as I feeltired I will close up.Don't forget to send meas much in your lettersas you possibly can, pages& pages, I will enjoy everyline.I am loving you more thanever darling. The one thingI constantly look forwardtoo is when we are married.I don't care a damn [[?]]the war.It is I am all [[?]]time thinking of you & buildcastles in the air of the timewe will have when I get back& we are married. We will beable to make one anothervery very happy.Here's to the Reunion in MayGoodnight Darling. I adore& worship you SweetheartYour ever lovingTom