Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 3 March 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: My Dear Little Wife H.M.T.S. IonianWednesday March 3, 1915. It is difficult to know what to do aboutletters now they will all be censored & just whatwe will be allowed to say I don't know. I loathewriting letters for the censor more than youdo. There always seems to be nothing to sayI think I will fill in everything I can inthis letter from time to time & have it postedat the first opportunity uncensoredWell we found out yesterday we are boundfor Lemnos an island 60 miles fromthe Dardanelles Apart from hearing itis a Greek possesion with13000 inhabitants mostly Greek, I knowabsolutely nothing.We left Alexandria at midday yesterday.I believe we should have left before butthey did not finish taking all the wood aboardWe are not accompanied by any other boatsShe is an awful tub of a boat & pretty dirtyI believe she has been transporting Indiantroops & landed some at Port Said before comingon to Alexandria The accomodation is verylimited & the food is not as varied as theAscainius but plentiful. There are no hammocks which is a blessing asthey are a nuisance. We are allowednearly everywhere & I have had a good positionon the boat deck to sleep in the two nightsThere are an insufficient number ofmess tables to go round so some haveto eat their meals sitting on their kit bagsnobody grumbles for a wonder. notthat it would do any good but soldiersalways grumble even when they arewell treated. It is only until tomorrowthough, so it won't be as bad as it mightWe have a great pontoon on board witha stern that drops like a tailboardfor landing horses so we evidently wontland at a wharf. Exactly what we willdo I can't tell. The only thing I can guessis that Lemnos will be a base foroperations against Dardanelles.We may be there all the time & never seethe Turks.When leaving Alexandria we passed the 'northCarolina' an 'U.S.a.' cruiser. Their bandplayed the national anthem. The deckswere lined & they gave cheer after cheer& dipped their flag while we replied.The sea has been very calm & the boathardly rocks. Friday March 5Here we are lying at anchor off Lemnoswaiting for Greece to declare war at leastthat is the rumour. The harbour is splendidHalf a dozen transports and as manymen of war makes you realise that thereis such a thing as war.We arrived yesterday evening after awonderfully calm voyage. Yesterday wepassed lots of islands of all of whichseemed unihabitated, some of them onlyrocks. As we approached here there werelots of men of war knocking round uslooking very ghostly in the pale moonlightwith not a light showing. I could canmake out what look like a coupleof battleships or armoured cruisers, adestroyer, two torpedo boats & a submarineThey have been nearly all on the moveThe only other transport I can recogniseis the Suffolk. Evidently the 3rd Brigadeis all here. The island from here looksa mixture of rocks & dou grassy downsa village of about 50 houses liesabreast of us. There is higher landfurther back. If the rumour on thetop of the page is true & Greece does not declare war by tomorrow night we will have to move out I suppose. We hear no reliablenews at all. I dont know even if wew are intended to land here. We don't knowwhat is in the wind, what the next 24 hourswill see bring forth. The brigadier wentoff in a pinnace this morning to theflagship. She got ran aground on a little mudisland much to every ones amusement& another pinnace had to haul them offI have an idea Lemnos is mentionedin ancient Greek history. Wasn't somenaval engagement waged near here?No-body seems to know anything about itDidn't Paul wander round this way too?It is a great disadvantage not havingany books to refer to. I wish the AdelaidePublic Library was handy.I have been amusing myself by mendingsocks & clothes sewing on buttons &greasing boots. I have had my rifle topieces & got all the sand out a job thattook me a couple of hours. Apart fromexamination of kit rifles there have beenno any parades. There is a great shortage ofbooks but we manage to fill in timesomehow.Saturday night still here I believe Greece hasleased this island to Great Britain. This sounds most likely,A severely censored mail closed to-day.We were not allowed to mention anythingabout the war where we were or even ifwe had left Egypt. I sent you a notefrom which you may be able to gatherwhere we are & that all is well. I alsowrote one to mother & Feo & a post card toLinda. I don't know how it is goingback.The 9th landed to-day They are going tobivouac for 3 days. The two Colonels tossedup for which battalion was to land & asusual 'Flossie' lost. We are to go ashorefor exercise every other day I believe.This is a beautiful harbour, completelylandlocked & evidently very deep & roomyas there is an armoured Cruiser a FrenchCruiser 3 destroyers 3 submarines & atorpedo boat besides 7 or 8 transportsThree arrived this morning from Englandwith some Territorials aboard. I heardthere were some marines also aboardanother transport. One of the men of wararrived from the Dardanelles to-dayThe information comes passes through severalhands so it is sure to be garbledThe forts seem to be difficult to completely capture as the Turks keep bringing upfield guns & preventing any parties landing partyThe rumour goes that a force of 500 marineslanded in two parties One was cut upterribly & only 8 returned This seems tobe the only one of many rumours thatis reliable. Apart from this we haveheard no war news whatever.It looks to me as if they will makethis a base for an army operating againstthe Dardanelles. Whether we will seeany actual fighting or not is hard tosay.There was one amusing incident whenthe 9th were disembarking. The shipsboats were in a leaky condition throughthe sun. One started to fill when themen got in. An officer tried to makea cheap hero of himself by gesticulatingin the boat & telling the men to keepcalm as every thing was alright. Themen were treating it as a joke whilethe officer seemed the most excited.Of course they were all quickly on boardagain with nothing more than wet feet.The weather has been lovely, mosttemperate neither too hot nor cold.There no are not the extremes in temperature we had at Meona either.There were are a lot of little towers on bothsides of the harbour we couldn't at firstmake out. I find they are windmills ofthe Dutch style. There are several hamletsround about. A bumboat was outalongside this morning & quickly sold outof cigarettes, matches, biscuits & walnuts.They could speak English well, I supposemost likely they had been sailors.We have all been paid 30/- each payhow long this is to last us I don't know I rather like this idea of a diary letterIf I leave a letter until post day I don't seemto be able to get half the filling. Jotting downevery other day or so, seems to lengthen itout though it must seem stale reading whenyou get it. I have exhausted every thingto-night so I will say goodnight darling.Oh another thing that is difficult is tofind new love phrases. I don't like repeatingthe same old ones. I think I will have totry & get that book on 'How to write Love Letters'Sunday night Nothing fresh has happened.The chief interests of the day seem to be thevarious rumours that float round. Theinventive mind of the Australian soldieris superb. I will give you to-days 'latrinograms' Island is to be a base for 100,000 troops (2)We willbe] here from 4 to -6 weeks (3)The force is to bemade up of English Regulars, TerritorialsTroops from Malta, Marines & the Australian & NZCorp. The (4)Lemnos is claimed by both Greece& Turkey. G.B. has taken possession at present& will hand it over to Greece at the end ofthe war. (5)Half the 10th is to go for a routemarch to-morrow. (6)The Allies troops inBelgium & France have been drivenback 50 miles. (7) The rumour about the500 marines is exaggerated.Whatever is one to do. You can nevertrace the origin of these 'officials' Theofficers are really worse than the men.The admiral came aboard for a fewminutes to-day. Who he is I can't say.There is much more room on board nowthe 9th has gone. They have taken all theirtents. This looks as if rumour No2 is right.There is no parson on board so no churchParade to-day. Disinfecting troop decks insteadThis is because of the presence of some speciesof livestock. Luckily I have not been inhabitedyet. I am anxious to get ashore, I scentpages of descriptive matter or attempts atit. Oh well another good night I suppose Dear it is getting a long time nowI often feel wild with myself for comingaway. What wouldn't I give for a weekin Adelaide now. It seems so lonely tome sometimes inspite of all the newinterests, but what must it be to you.What a score will be mounted for thatreunion. Goodnight Dearest.Monday Night They gave us half an hours' towarning for a mail to-day. I was justable to scribble a few lines on any MCA P.C.From it you may gather rumours Nos 1 & 2A & B corps went ashore for a route marchto-day I did not go as I was on duty ina boats crew taking them ashore & bringingthem back again. They passed throughtwo hamlets & were greatly impressedwith the cleanliness & the fertility of the soilThe Greek inhabitants speak Arabic as well& the troops were greatly surprised to begreeted with 'Saida' pronounced Say e da(Good-day) There are two Arabic wordsthat will sure to be Australianised when we getback Saida & Imshi (equivilant to 'getout') This latter word is used to inferiorswhen their presence is not requiredA great battleship came in to-day whichsome of the sailors said was the 'QueenElizabeth' that wonderful new creation with the 16 inch guns that was ableto fire on the Dardanelles forts whilsta mile out of range.Some Royal Marine Infantry were aboardto-day but I did not see them. Fromthose that were speaking to them I gatherthat rumours 1, 2, 3 & 7 are probably trueSome of the marines were ref those referredto in 7. About 50 had been killed.I did a bit of washing to-day As I couldgot plenty of hot water from the winchesit was easy work. I have overhauled allmy kit & done all the mending possible.It seems strange as there is nothing Ican do. It is the first time in my lifeI have not had something that wanteddoing. It is a most unsatisfactory feelingI don't think I will let it occur again.About the war finishing in May.I am going to alter my opinion to JuneThe Spring army will be later gettingto work than I originally thought. The Asergeant of the marines on board to-daythought it was sure to end by June.He had been fighting in France beforecoming here. He witnessed that famouscharge of the London Scottish; but I didnot hear of his comments. I have just finished reading a bookof Warwick Deeping's 'The Rust of Rome'Have you read it? I was neither disappointednor enthusiastic " One passage is worthquoting "And by agnosticism he understood,not that grotesque guy dressed up in misrepresentationsby theologians & pelted with paradoxicalsquibs, but a sincerity of mind that comesfrom fearless & cleansing thought."You needn't read that paragraph out tothe others. I was wondering how you goton with some paragraphs in my letters;whether you ever started on some, that tosay the least, would startle the hearers.I can fancy what mother would look like,& wouldn't Freda have a lot to say.What would you do, flee or blush & faceit out. Wouldn't it be terrible?It is late now & I have to be at thegangway at 6.30am. So once moreGoodnight my little girl.Wednesday Evening I thought of quite a lotto write about during the last 48 hoursbut most of it seems to have slipped mymemory.I have struck a bonzer job. You rememberthat crew at Aden for rowing the Colonelaround, well it has been called into requisition again for the use of theBrigadier Colonel & Staff & the Colonel &Adjutant It is practically the same.Rhodes & I are the only oarsman. The sixothers are all men of warsmen. It hasbeen placed in orders and we are freefrom every other duty. That meanswe miss parades, guards & fatigues of whichthere are plenty. Sergeant Tomlinson isin charge. We have about 2 trips a day& the rest of the time to ourselves. Yesterday& today we were ashore for a few hours.The Greeks come down to the landing placeswith their wares in the shape of nuts, oranges,Turkish Delight, cigarettes, milk, honey, butter& matches. We had quite an amusingtime with them You never saw sh suchan assortment of wearing apparel The roundfustian cap was in great evidence so werethose funny trousers reaching to the kneeswith yards & yards of spare cloth betweenthe legs. Some had primitive rawhidesandals others old boots. One pair of dapperAmerican yellow button boots looked very comicalwith in conjunction with greenish khakiputtees with a gr red border hem andwhite striped blue trousers & goatskincoat, the fur inside & tanned leather outside most had blue stockings showingbeautifully shaped calves. The umbiquitousdonkey was also in evidence. They couldspeak very little English, the natives Imean. One had been in Egypt and AmericaHe knew more Arabic than we. They arestarting to charge a bit for stuff but itis our own fault for it is only humannature to get the all you can if the buyeris fool enough to pay it.The tower windmills are peculiar affairs I cantvery well describe them They are somethinglike this[*hand drawn picture of a windmill*]The little triangular patches at the end of the wings arelike little canvas jibs. They are all usedfor grinding corn & and flour. There must behundreds on the island.It was quite pleasant to loll about thegrass You see there was none in EgyptEvery inch of land was cultivated so itwas really the first grass we had beenon since leaving Australia.There is a kind of cognac made on theisland. It hasn't an unpleasant taste& is very mild. By the bye the Colonel hascome to light with a pint of beer both days which goes very well.There was a typed sheet of war news postedup to day covering from the last week.It proved rumour No 6 on page 64 wrong& 7 correct. It mentioned that owing tothe situation in the Dardanelles the troopsat present training in North Africawere to be ready to leave at a momentsnotice. Well all the troops there will notbe used. Perhaps the Aust 2nd contingentmay be but there is bound to be agarrison kept there. I believe a forceof 40000 French will arrive within threeweeks With 40000 Australasians & 20000various the rumoured force of 100000 would bemade up. I don't think there is muchin this rumour thoughA I had a very interesting chat to oneof half a dozen sailors last night.They have come aboard from the LordNelson to man a steam furnace leantto tow the boats ashore. This chap wasa real cockney & a fair nut. It isthe Lord Nelson we mistook for theQueen Elizabeth which came in todayThe 'Nellie' took a very prominent partin the bombardment of the DardanellesThe Tar told me a lot about it. Eighteen forts had been demolishedwhen they left. He was one of the crew landingthe Marines that were cut up. This fort hadbeen settled some days previously butbad weather had prevented any landingparty. In the meantime the Turks & Germanshad taken full advantage of the time& entrenched themselves very stronglybesides having snipers in every availablecover, ruins etc. Evidently the reconnoiteringseaplanes missed this. or the Marines couldntsee where the firing came from evenA lot of their shells dont explode & the firingis not very good. The 'Nellie' (nickname forthe Lord Nelson) had no difficulty in silencinga fort with 14 inch guns though her biggestare 12 inch. He was particularly funnydescribing this fort. "All at wance themTurks stahrted commin' aht of that fortin hundreds rahght on top of a hill. Wegave em a salvo at abaht 8000 & Gawdblimy, when the dust cleared we hadshot the ground they was on away."Somebody asked why they came out ofthe fort! 'Guess it was gettin tooblaming hot in there'The Marines caught one Turk gougingout the eyes of one of the dead. They charged him before he got away, stood himup against a wall & literally shot piecesout of him.Two mine sweepers have been settled.They are only trawlers & drag for mineswith wire ropes. Naturally they takea tremendous risk. There are half adozen in harbour here.A French General arrived yesterday &inspected the camp of the 9thWe have started Bridge again, Thereis to be no stake. I ought to be somethingof a player when I get back.All our horses are going ashore to-morrowWe have about 40 on board.No word of the 2nd or 1st Brigade yet norof any mails.I have had to rearrange my writing kitI can get this book with a few postcards& paper in my haversack nicely. Yourphoto is in wonderfully good order. Thecardboard covers of the book keep it fromgetting bent. Three of the corners are gone a littlebut the photo is as undamaged as the dayI got it. Do you remember how shy youwere about showing the proof? The tissueenvelope I still have. I like the hazy glimpseI can get of you through it. I always have it on the back of the previous pagewhen I am writing. I never get tired oflooking at it. I am afraid I have neglectedthe profile one. That is in my kit bagwith your letters. I don't like it half aswell as the one Freda called affected.The best light to look at it is artificialIt looks most natural then. I feel awfullyashamed I haven't had a decent photo tosend you yetThursday March 11th We have had quite a pleasantday. This morning we took the Colonel & partyashore near the 9th camp for a courtmartial. I was quite surprised to findround a little point a tiny jetty. Quitea decent sized village. We can see partof it from the Ionian but most ishidden by the little hill that runs out tothe point. The 9th camp is on the hillThe heads were away for several hoursso after we had lunch we had a stroll.A well made road led from the jettywinding through the group of 50 or so houses thatformed the village. There were two or threecafes where you could get Turkish coffee,cognac, a dark sour weak wine, rum &English lager beer. Needless to say wesampled the Tennants Lager & found it very refreshing. Most of the houses aretwo storeyed & well build of stone. A peculiarshaped tile forms the roof. The tiles aresemicircular & are laid like this [[?]]There was the same variety of dress.The women were all of a clear cut similartype & wore the white cloth round theirheads ears & chins looking for all the worldlike a corpse with the chin tied up.The old women are nearly as good lookingas the young. Babies were very numerousA finely built Greek Orthodox Churchlooked magnificient among these ruralsurroundings Some of us went insideThe Greek priest in his funny cap &gown gave us a taper each which welit & stuck in an urn containingsand. The thing that one noticed mostwas the abscence of seats or pews. The interiorwas richly decorated in blue tints with plentyof well painted panels of the saints. A tallbeautifully carved preaching desk (I Forgetthe correct name) was particularly noticableOn a specially carved lecturn was a paintingof the Madonna & child that looked veryold probably medaeval. ? I don't knowwhat the burning of the tapers signifiedat anyrate one didn't show our appreciation by placing anything in the alms boxwhich was in a prominent position.The villages are really out of bounds butof course the Colonels crew would be excepted.Over the other side of the hill on the beachbelow the 9th camp is tiny quaint brickchurch about 8ft x 12ft by 7ft high. It isevidently dis not in use. A niche in onewall evidently formed the alter. The rafterswere very old and wormeaten. There was a littleglass bowl in a bracket with sanctuaryoil & floats in it. On the other side wasan iron spiked arrangement with bits ofrags on it. I wonder if it is a superstitionsimilar to one often seen in Ireland nearwells?The harbour is very busy. Super DreadnoughtsCruisers, Destroyers, Torpedo boats, Trawlers(for mine sweeping), Submarines, SupplyShips (coal, oil & provisions) Pinnaces &Picquet boats and a dozen or so TransportsThere are 5 boats for the 3rd BrigadeThe Ionian, Malda, Suffolk Nizam & DavanahThere are 6 'Castle' liners in with Royal MarineLight Infantry & sundry details anda couple of French Transports. When wewere ashore we saw a party of Frenchmenwith their greenish Khaki blue overcoats & ugly French military caps.War boats are constantly leaving & coming& it is difficult to keep count of themThe most noteworthy are the Queen Elizabeththe Inflexible (of Falkland Island fame)the Lord Nelson, Indominatable & AE2submarine from Australia.There is an are two & Admirals a rear & a viceToday the French General & a couple ofhis staff paid an official visit on boardThe only gawdy thing about him was hiscap all gold & red braidwork & lace fancyfullycoloured. His only decoration was theLegion of Honour medal & ribbon whichhe seemed very proud of. We turned out aguard of honour & the band.Friday March 12 I was called away last nightat 8 when I was writing. We went roundto the Brigade boats with orders for thebrigade training to-day. When we came backthere was a mouthful of whiskey waitingfor each of us.A mail left yesterday. I was able to getmuch more th in than should have bygetting Captain Green to censor it insteadof my own Coy. Commander. I can'trelish Beevor censoring any of my letters.From C3 you may be able to gather that all is well & 40000 French troops are arrivingin 3 weeks time. They have to close the maila day before it leaves on account of thecensoring I noticed it still lying in themail room so it may not go for a day ortwoA couple of large liners in their grey warpaint arrived during the night. It lookslike the Canadian flag they are flying.A hospital ship, the 'Soudan' also arrivedI dont know who is on board or whereshe comes from. She looks very prettypainted white with a broad green bandright round her intersected, with 3 largered crosses on each side.Saturday afternoon Intercepted again lastnight. This evening now looks like aregular thing. However we dont mindWe would sooner be on this game thanany other. This morning we took theBrigadier & staff to the 'Frankonia' oneof the yesterdays arrivals. She is a largeCurnard liner The other big one is theRoyal George a Canadian Northern Railwayboat. Both have Naval Brigades on boardI think this is the branch George & Euthriebelong to. They have a lot of naval reservemen among them. They say about 10 000 are coming here.The last day or two has been a bit coldbut not too cold to sleep on deck.The past 3 days the official war communiqueshave been posted up. Things seem to be progressingin the Dardenelles.The tucker has not been very varied lately.You see the boat was leaving Alexandria Pt Said forEngland when she was stopped & sent toAlexandria & took us on board next dayThey had no chance of victualling her properlyso bully beef has been our main dietlately. The butter is a bit rancid. To-dayfor dinner we got quite a surprise withsome beautiful rice soup, tender beef & potatoes& bread & jam. The bread is always goodfreshly baked each night Jam & cheesewill be served regularly each other day now.There has been no complaint as mostrecognise that it is inevitable Thankgoodness the bully has been very goodbut you get awfully sick of it.A boatload of men got ashore the othernight. What for goodness only knows. Theygot each 10 days field punishment. For twohours each day they are tied up to waggon wheels& spend the rest of the time in the detentionroom. Naturally dicipline will be very strict now.There are 6 Castleliners in now withmarines & naval Brigade men on boardAll the horses have been taken ashoreThere is plenty of greenfeed & they seemto be enjoying themselvesSunday Evening I wouldn't have swoppedplaces with the King today. Just thinkof it We have been all round theQueen Elizabeth & all over a submarineRight down in her & the B11 at thatthe ? identical one that made historywhen she dived under 4 rows of mine& sank that Turkish battleship. Andnot least of all we have shankenhands with her V.C. Commander &had afternoon tea with her creweveryone awarded the D.S.M. Letme tell you how it came about.At 2 o'clock the crew had to take theBrigadier & staff ashore to the 9thCamp. He said he would be ashorean hour or so & had no objectionto our pulling out to the 'Eliza' Offwe went with Sgt Heritage on whomwe picked up as we were moving off.We had a good 3 miles to row & sawthe Agamemnon Inflexible & Lord Nelson steam off. The booms were upon the 'Eliza' & we were frightendwe wouldn't be in time. However wegot there in time to rowe right roundher and gaze aghast at the greatfloating mass of armoured steel &guns. What a personification of powershe looked. Think of it 8 immense long15 inch dealers of death capable of throwinga shells weighing a ton, 15 milesOn each side forward were 6 - 6 inches& aft 2 each side, 16in all. Amidshipswhat looked like 4 - 12 inchers. Theimmense steel barbettes for the I5swere awe inspiring You couldn't imagineany force piercing them And yet tothink that floating fort costing 2 million& its thousand souls could be blottedout by one little mine. War is cruelthink of that gigantic engine of destructionthrowing its ton shells whe 25,000 yds over hills& reducing forts to rubbish and mento bloody atoms, while 4 miles out ofrange, neither the weilders not seeing theeffect of their fire nor the defenders wherethey it came from.There were a lot of men on deckamong them about 20 civies (men in civilian clothes) whom we foundto be articifers from the workshops.On the quarter deck the commanderpaced his constitutional accompaniedby an officer while the orderley messengerwaited in attendance. The rangefinding crows nest was an immenseaffair, roofed, capable of holding 20men. In an engagement not theonly faces life visible would be the facesof the range finders.We slowly drifted past changing remarkswith the crew & then made for a supplyship with two submarines alongside.We had no thought of being able toboard the submarines as even inpeace times it needs an admiralsorder to board one. We were invitedaboard the supply ship in search ofa drink of water & meeting some ofthe submarine's crew were told thecommander might let us aboard ifwe asked. Up went Sgt Tomlinson& with Australian cheek got what wewanted. We couldn't scramble downthe connecting plank quickly enough.The crew of 13 sort of opened theirbosoms to us. The conning tower was an elliptical shaped affair onlycoming to a very narrow point eachend. From bow to stern stretched a wirerope supported in the centre by a standardthat kept it above all gear sothat a wire rope would offer noobstruction when the submarine wassubmerged. The periscope was capableof being lowered below this wire forof course the periscope is the only visibleobject when she is submerged.A ladder led down the conning tower& into the hull as also did one onthe deck. Down below was the mostinteresting little cubby hole. The littleroom was only about 5 feet in height& about 60 feet in length. The switcheswheels & machinery bewilded one.Right forward were the two torpedotubes surrounded by all the gearthat works them. Two long cigars tookup a lot of space on the floor. On themwere placed bags which overcame thenecessity of seating accomodation.[I] The floor forward was the roofof the petrol tank. A neat littleelectric cooking arrangement took ourfancy. In no time they boiled some water & made us tea. I had aregulation navy basin of it. It waseasily the most delicious tea I havehad since you made that cup withthe boiling milk. They cut us sandwich& it seemed as if they couldn't doenough for us. What a fine bodyof men they looked, clean cut, thin faced lookingall with intellectual faces & nothing tosay for about themselves. Heroes everyone. We couldn't stand it any longerso off we fired question after questionThis is the disjointed story we wereable to drag out of one. 'We were toldoff to reconnoitre in the Dardanelles& got up as far as Chanak withoutmishap when the skipper spotted theTurkish battleship. We dived to get a bitcloser, guessed the range at 1000 yds &fired. Then they spotted us & we hadjust time to see her disappear ten minutesafter firing & get away as quickly aswe could. We were 9 hours underthat trip. It made us feel a bitdizzy when we got to the fresh air againbut you don't notice it until then."They seemed quite unconcerned aboutthe exploit 'Why' said one 'The last trip up the straights was the toughest'.We were told off to draw the fireof the forts & we did it only too well.A shell lobbed within 20 yds of uswith our conning tower above water.Another followed closer before wehad time to dive, but we were wellunder when we heard the third. Itwas touch & go that time". Another ofour crew was able to drag out thefollowing. "The skipper told us we wereto get up as far as we could & therewere 4 rows of mines to dodge & said'what about it' 'Where you are gameto go we are" we answered, & off we went'.Of course we had a peep at theperiscope It gave quite a clear deflectionof boats lying ahead. On it are markedlines which enable the commander totell where the torpedoes are sightingWhen submerged the only target offeredis this tiny tube two inches in diameterThink of the accuracy of that gunner on the Birminghamwho picked of the German periscope athalf a mile, first shot too.The crew loaded us with magazinesa cigarette each to smoke above& several tins of oxtail soup which were pressed on us in spite of ourprotests that it was robbing them.What was more important still wasan invitation to visit them again.This morning we took the shipsdoctor ashore at the little jetty & havingan hour to wait took a stroll intothe village again. We penetrated abit further & found it much morepopulous. The little narrow laneswound about in a most perplexingway. We came across the villagepump with several clean typed womenfilling their stone jars. Very picturesqueit looked.Soldiers from the 8 French transportsnow in port have started a little campquite near the town. About half amile round the other way the advancecompany of the Naval Brigade ASChave also started a camp. Frenchsoldiers of in every conceivable typeof uniform were about.On At the shore nearest the ninth campa little jetty has been started by theEngineers. Whatever will it be likewhen the full force of 100000 AustralianEnglish & French arrive? We did our trip round the brigadeboats in 28 minutes early this eveningIt is time I turned in probably todream about submarines & Super Dread-noughts & you. Goodnight little girl.Monday Nothing startling to-day. Thismorning we took the Brigadier ashore.There was a brigade route march onAfter coming back we rowed over to asmall gunboat whi the 'Hussar' whichis acting flagship, for the war news.From there we went to the 9th landingpassing a merchantman which that strucka mine in the Bay of Smyrna. Her cargoof wheat was being unloaded into a boatalongside. After landing our passengerswe had a swim. The water was too coldto stay in long. The last couple of dayshave been wonderfully fine the bay assmooth as glass & the sun quite warmin the day time. It has rained twicesince we have been here, just shortthunderstorms. I would like to knowwhat is going on in the Dardanelles to-dayThe harbour is clear of men of war withthe exception of the 'Swiftsure' (the cruiserwith the big cranes for hoisting torpedo boatsthat picked us up at Aden 3 months ago.) the two submarines & the flagship.Even the hospital ship 'Soudan' clearedout yesterday She is attached to the navy.A Russian 5 funnelled cruiser the identicalone that we saw at Colombo went outthis afternoon. I don't think I mentionedthe Blenheim as being in the other day.She is a pre Dreadnought fitted up as averitable machine shop. She is capableof acting as supply ship to 32 Destroyers.Taking out damaged plates & puttingin new ones is right in her lineI forgot to tell you yesterday that submarinecrews are all voluntary They get 2/6 a dayextra, not much of an insurance annuitypremium is it? The Australian submarineAE2 was in the other day She ran agroundnear the entrance & has had to go toMalta to be overhauled.Some of the transports are using greatTurkish barges for taking horses ashoreI w I wonder if they are captures?The French Foreign Legion is here. Nodoubt you have heard of them. Oncejoined you are there for life. A ha'pennya day is the pay & no questions asked whereyou form I wonder if it is as romanticas novelists paint it. I know there are several Englishmen in it.There is some talk of us runningback to Alexandria for water & stores.I hope so. The water they put on yesterdaywas brackish. You were thirstier afterthan before drinking. Harry Nott inhis condemnation wrote that it wasa disgrace to H.M. Transports.Major Oldham was expressing his opinionrather freely yesterday about the Scotchowners, Scotch ship & Scotch food. Thecaptain overheard & took up the defenceimmediately. The discussion came onto the butter. 'Wh That butter was thefinest procurable when it was put aboard'said the captain. 'But how old is the ship'said Mr Oldham.That little village I have tried to describeis Murkos "Mudros" The largest on the islandis "Castro" exactly where it lies I can'tsay.Tuesday The programme this morning waspractising landing under cover of a warshipsguns. B Coy was the landin covering coy &had to be landed first to hold the positionwhile the others landed. They started at3.30 a.m. We left with the Brigadier & Staffafter they were afloat & were the first to land. It was very dark, the shorenot visible until within 100 yds makingit very difficult to pick up any directionThere are no prominent landmarks roundthe bay & the boats being anchored forwardonly, swing round to each change of windIt is most perplexing at night time. Ithink it was more luck than anythingthat we struck the right spot. Afterlanding our passengers we came back &met several boatloads wandering about.Just after we got aboard the rain startedOnly half could have got ashore whenit was cancelled. They came back likedrowned rats. Naturally the whole thingwas a failure which the ships officersexpected. To-day has been quite an off day.The crew went over to the flagship forwar news. All we got yesterday & to-dayconcerned the French frontier only. It looksas if things were beginning to move there.The night before last the 'Ameythist' asmall cruiser was doing reconnoiteringwork in the Dardanelles when she wassurprised by a battery of howitzers.Twenty three were killed & 14 wounded.One of the 'mouth' class of cruisers islying in harbour. One of her boilers burst while operating up there & killed11 men. The battleship we thought wasthe 'Inflexible' was the 'Agememnon'.In her first engagement some of the shipscrew were over on the disengaged sidepainting blotches. This has a peculiaroptical effect [[l ?]] making a difficult target.The shells were falling all around & twomen were killed before being all ordered'under armour'. The tale goes that the skippergot hauled over the coals about it. Oneof the men killed had a paint brush stillin his hand when picked up.We got all this news on our trip this morningI don't know why I am writing it all downIt will all be stale by the time it reachesyou. However I am to post it I cant imagineI seem to derive a lot of pleasure from justwriting to you though I know it will be monthsbefore you can get it.For the last 4 nights I have been living or atleast sleeping in luxury. The 9th OrderleyRoom was is one of the smoking rooms. Asthey are ashore it is not being used.Roy White first told me about it & RhodesJones & I bunk on the saddleback cushionedlounges. There is plenty of room & we arenot disturbed. I have been doing all thewriting one one of the marble card tables.We are envied by all who are in the know.A collier came alongside this morning& delivered water & some preservedvegetables. The tucker has been muchbetter the last couple of days.Wednesday 17th A funny incident happenedthis morning. About 20 sick (all those inthe hospital on board) were being towedashore by a pinnace. A Greek bum boatwas alongside one of the gigs selling fruitThe pace increased & the owner let go topick up the next boat. Somehow or otherthe Dago got jambed & his boat fullystocked turned turtle. The fellows couldhardly pull him out for laughing.At He gave one agonised look at thekeel of his boat with matches nuts orangeTurkish Delight etc floating round andburst into tears. All the way ashore hetore his hair in real Greek Dago fashion.The climax came when one of the purchasersasked for his tuppence change. He hada hired man aboard but he jumped ontothe gig when the boat was filling. He wasmost unconcerned, smoking his cigarette& gazing round as if it was quite apleasure trip. There were half a dozen cases of measlesamong those taken ashore. Four are fromA company two of which are in our platoonArchie Smith & Swann. It is only Germanmeasles. Fisher has tonsolitis but expectsto be back again in a couple of days.The news this morning only concernedFrance nothing about the Dardanelles orRussia. I believe they have made goodprogress in the former place if they havenot actually got right through.More boats in to-day but no word of therest of our division. It is rumouredSir Ian Hamilton is to command thisexpedition & is to arrive to-day.Nothing official about our moving orthe arrival of the rest of the division.Most of the French force must behere by now.Thursday Had a day with the heads. We musthave seen a doz Generals at the same timethis morning. The new scout 'Phaeton arrivedyesterday with Sir Ian Hamilton & staffaboard. They ran from Marseilles in twodays, quite easy for a 36 knot boat. She isa new class built for scouting & destroyingdestroyers. Not heavily armed, nearly everythingbeing sacrificed for speed. We took the brigadier off to her on his own. Atthe same time a couple of British Generals& their staffs & 2 French Generals with theirstaffs arrived on their official visits toSir Ian. The saluting that went on amongthem was never ending. We were notkept waiting long as the 'Phaeton' movedoff after the visitors had hurriedly gotaboard their small craft. The sailors saidshe was going up the Dardanelles sightseeing.Coming back the Brigadier told us thatwe would be here for some time asthe French & Naval Brigade & marines wouldprobably move first. He also told us thatthe Queen Elizabeth was heavily engaged.A large number of shells struck her yesterdaybut only bounced back into the water.This new elastic armoured steel mustbe wonderful stuff. One shell only didany damage, entering the a ward roompossibly through a porthole. No casualtieswere mentioned.To-day has been a bit rough making rowingdifficult. They took all the morning to takethe battalion off, as each boat has to make3 trips, some 4. We had quite a rough timerowing the brigadier round to severalof the Castle boats this afternoon. This evening four of the Castle boatsand the Royal George went out. Nobodyseems to know where they are boundfor. I think there is R. M-L. I. on all.The officers were all supposed to wearweb equipment & rifles for the firsttime. They didn't play the game thoughas they only had overcoats in their packs.B4 got a cheer mixed with jeers whenhe appeared with his. Unfortunatelyhe had noticed a great 12lb tin of bullysomebody had slipped in when his batmanwasn't looking.There were some nurses aboard theal Nirvanha. A hospital has been establishedashore so perhaps Gay Burns is there.I haven't seen any of them but next timewe go to Mudros I will have a look out.Still no mail. Have found out thereis a weekly mail with Egypt & Castro whichlies somewhere on the other side of the island.It comes overland from Castro to Mudrosbut there has been no military letters yet.Perhaps they don't haven't let the headquartersP.O. know where to send ours.Friday Last night I had just finished this& had time to undress & settle down comfortablywhen in came Sgt Tomlinson The crew was wanted to take the Adg.& the two interpreters we have with us, ashore.Some Greek had run amok & been laidout by one of our chaps before doingany damage. The local police were kickingup a shindy. The wind had increasedso those heavy gigs needed some pullingagainst the head wind. It took us nearly2 hours solid pulling to get to the newlyconstructed 9th jetty. We got back to theship at 2.30 am. We have been off allduty to-day as a reward.There was to have been another attemptat night landing in the morning butI expect it will be cancelled as the windis still strong. At no time have the wavesbeen large enough to cause the slightestmovement of the Ionian but the gigsbeing so high out of the water, catch it all& make it only possible to move very slowlyagainst it.The Castle liners all came back to-dayhaving only cruised outside the harbour.To day comes the official news that theInvincible Ocean Irresistible have met withmisfortune with no loss of life but a Frenchcruiser sank with all hands in 3 minutes.The trouble seems to be floating mines. The Turks or rather the Germansfloat these mines down the Straights withthe tide, causing the men of war to moveout each night.The library was opened to-day. The 9thOrderley room where we sleep is being used.However we have still got our tables &lounges & as it is only to be open for an houreach day it will cause no inconvenience.I got hold of a book by Mc Cutcheon 'Nedra',this morning & have finished it. It isa most perplexing book, but I expect youhave read it.It has struck me that the reason of theothers getting the chance of removal beforeus is the want of transports to bring upthe rest of the Division. I surmise thatthe opportunity of 4 transports near Egyptwas the cause of the 3rd Brigade moving whenthey did it did and were was intended as a reserve forthe marines that landed. Finding that it waspremature to attempt it at present & theother forces arriving complete, they naturallywould get pride of position. I believe thereare over 2000 transports engaged & just atthis time they would have none to sparefrom the Channel.Saturday The Dardanelles rumours yesterday were not quite right as we found outthis morning when the official news fromthe 'Hussar' was posted up. The Irresistible& Ocean & 2 French boats were sunk andthe Invincible was damaged by ahowitzer battery but successfully beached at Tenedos. This happened Thursday.We had a lecture this afternoon aboutthe war. It is estimated there are 18000German officers & non coms among theTurks. You see Germany has been frightened all along Turkey would say 'Kismet'when the bombardment started & makeit an excuse to declare peace earlyto save Constantinople; which is quiteon the boards I think.There is a rumour among the officersthat Sir Ian Hamilton has declaredhe wont table the proposition withouthalf a million men.It has been blowing a gale to-day. Therehas been no chance of any crews going out.Each company in turn had a sort ofroute march round the ship. Beingoff all other duties except the crew I havebeen reading all day. I struck an oldbound volume of the Cornhill.A mail closed today. Through Keith GreenI was able to write you more than the regulation page chiefly extracts fromthis diary letter. How I hate writing lettersthat I know are to be censored. I quakewhen I think this one might be.All the boats have two anchors out, butthe waves are not strong enough tocause any motion. The wind is howlingthrough the rigging in a most mournfulway. This storm will stop all operationsin the Dardanelles. untilIt is wonderful what can be done withbully beef. The past 3 days since our cookshave taken over the galley they have madedifferent kinds of stews with it, quitepalatable they have been.The lights have gone out so it is Goodnightagain my Darling.Monday night I didn't write yesterday. Theredidn't seem anything of interest to write about& then paper is getting short.A couple of the Oceans crew have been attachedto us for signalling purposes until they get anothership. It appears they had plenty of time to getoff the Ocean taking 3 hours to sink. Someof the crew, excited, jumped on to the decks ofthe rescuing boat & broke their legs.The two sister ships easily distinguishableAgamemnon & Lord Nelson with the Queen Elizabeth came in last night. A shell piercedone of the funnels of the 'Liza. We haven't heardmuch of the last engagement.The storm blew out yesterday. The crewhad a trip to the Hussar after war news& to the 3rd Brigade boats. In the afternoonthe wind was blowing nearly as stronglyo from the immediate reverse quarter &has kept up to-day. The gigs have been sobadly knocked about that I believe theyare not to be used for taking troops ashoreanymore. The companies have been takingit in turn to exercise by running roundthe ship.This afternoon General Birdwood whoarrived to-day in the 'Doris' came aboard.The Doris has been engaged bombardingSmyrna. Whether she brought mails fromwith the General remains to be seen.Four weeks to day without a line. That's thehardest part of all.One of the chaps who was recommended forone of those commissions in the Englisharmy got hold of the what he says isreliable information that nearly allthose recommended had been granted.I hope my luck changes if we get intoany action. getting a veritable book wor[m].[Yes]terday I finished that volume of[Co]rnhill & to-day Jess by Rider Hagg[ard].[Th]is is not bad reading though the en[ding][se]ems too sad. I think I would have finishedit another way.When at the flagship yesterday they gaveus some London Times & copies of theMalta Daily Chronicle as late as March 10th.Here I am at the last page. I will have to[pu]ll back on sheets of paper. When I get[a] chance I will post you the two booksof carbon copies in case any of the letters havegone astray.This might be a worlds record letter 44 page[s]so far & not chance of posting for some[t]ime. I forgot to number Saturdays censoredletter C4. These censored mails will be weeklygoing ashore on Mondays to the local post officewhere they are sent to Castro & thence persteamer to Alexandria via Athens. Theyshould [arrive] in time to catch the followingweeks Australian mail which leaveson Tuesdays generally.I will end up this page as a letter & the goon with a No 19 on whatever I can gethold of. Goodnight my Darling Angelfrom your ever loving boy. Tom.