Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 24 April 1915 Location: Ionian off Dardanelles Turkey Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: H. M. T. Ionianoff DardanellesApril 24, 1915. My Dear Sweetheart,No. 19 has just been completed& the book has been delivered for posting. I thoughtof writing this in case I went under suddenly,and partly because I did not like to include whatI wanted to say nowin the book. not that at present Ihave any thought of not seeing you again butin case of accidents.I want to let you know by this means, that eversince I first commenced to love you I have alwaysloved you fondly. I think it was in Sydney whenI received your letter with 6s on the back that itbegan to dawn on me that you were more to methan anybody. Ever since then my love for youhas grown stronger & stronger, until now I feelthat I love you more than I ever dreamt was possiblefor any man to love. You have been the one greatthought in my life. It has come home to memore than ever since I left Australia how impossiblelife would be to me without you. I can't realisemyself how thoughts of you have completelyobsessed every waking minute for the past monthEvery step, every action has been preceded by the thought 'How will this strike Eileen' Oh God! Ilove you. As this will is only intended to reachyou in the event of my death you will knowthat my thoughts will have been of you right untilthe end. Of this I feel absolutely certainYou can't imagine how it hurts to write thisletter. The one thing I cant bear to think of is the possibilityof not being able to see you, to marry you, to live thehappiest of lives with you. May this letter neverbe necessary. But the thought that hurts worstof all is of you & your sorrow. For me, (as you knowI believe) just oblivion. It is you that will suffer.The thought of that will be the hard part of crossingthe bar. We have no means of comparison but thisis a cruel world sust just you think of the misery youcan see everywhere. If there is a controlling Godwhat a cruel God he must be The one thing thatmakes the cruellest sorrow bearable is that healerof all things 'Time'. So look forward to that onesilver lining. The chief thought in human naturewhen suffering great sorrow is to do pennance. Thisto my mind appears wrong. The world seems upsidedown. I think we should do our best to heal thewound & not to keep it open as the natural tendencyseems. Darling I want you to grieve as little aspossible Just think of me as non existent in To Nicholas Schmidt.A rather remarkable letter -Moving, poignant, even noble.Andrew Adamson The crossing out on last pagecould only have been doneby my mother. The short handwould be hers too. spirit, blotted out completely. It would softenthe last thoughts if I knew you would bereally happy again. I want you to marryagain when the opportunity comes. If it is not tobe me, may it be someone much worthier. Thatis not written for mere form.love.I have endeavoured to make you as happy as I could.We have had some wonderful times and it is betterto have loved & lost than never to have loved at all.You have always been my ideal woman & to makeyou happy would have been my sole ambition.Goodbye my love, may you get all the happinessyou deserve, will be my last wishYour loving husband,Tom.