Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 23 February 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo.Tuesday, February 23, 1915. My Darling Little Wife,What a day oh what a day. Think,10 letters & 76 papers to-night! I can't realiseit. And your wonderful letter It hasbeen well worth waiting a fortnight forIt is now just after 9 and it has been wasannounced 2 minutes ago that a mailis being closed for Australia at 10 - aFrench special I suppose. So don't expectanything much.I will have to leave answering yourletter until later in the weekThe letters were from you, 2 from Ted,Linda, Mother, Jack, Miss Hutchison,Frank Gunn, Cecil Oswald & Syd Middleton.The papers were 6 mails from Ted, which camealtogether, but which he said in hisletter were posted each week, and a Bulletinfrom someone whose writing I can't recogniseThere are hundreds of Bullys about allwith that famous cartoon.Well to get on to the most excitingnews. We are off within a fortnightWhere to I cant tell. The Brigadier wouldn'tsay & they evidently want us to believe it is France but I have my doubtsThe news came yesterday evening.Of course there was excitement andcheers & bands the 9th & 11th are to goSaturday in advance the rest to followwithin a week or fortnight. There arethree four places we might go to. The PersianGulf, Syria or Palestine, France, or EnglandI hardly think the former, though we haveheard nothing from that force for some timewhich must mean that they are notstrong enough to take Bagdad or don'twant to, more probably the latter. SyriaI hardly think, because of something MajorBrand said when lecturing another companythe other day. It was about the recentCanal engagement; when we had achance to settle the Turks completely,but were ordered not to ala, for politicalreasons. I will tell you more about itnext letter. France it may be but theysay we are to be re-equipped whichcould be easier done in England aswell as transporting us with the othersTo day we have been practising billettingStreets lanes houses shops etc weremarked out with flags at a suitableplace near Tigers Tooth and we were hed in. There was a turnoute alarm and lectures. It wasn'tinteresting. We are to get boots &deficiencies in equipment to-morrowWell I am glad we are to be on themove though I should like to seemore of Egypt. But we came to fight& thats what we all want to do, atleast we say so, though personally Iwould jump for joy if peace wasto be declared to-morrow.There is nothing but indignant discussionsevery where about Beans letter. I haven'thad time to more than glance atit. It is no doubt true in the mainbut told in a way that seems exaggerated.No doubt the first outline camefrom Headquarters. I have had severaldiscussions with old soldiers & I thinkI express the general opinion of thoseentitled to compare, that the troopsbehavior, considering all circumstances,is in no better than South Africa &might be very easily, much worse.The temptations are far greater, we havebeen in one place for 11 weeks andtaking a broad view based on a knowledgeof human nature things are better than I expected. You needn't be frightenedabout contagion Any infectious caseis isolated immediately & we all haveour own blankets which nobody elseuses. Every little while there is whatwe call a short arm parade. When thedoctor examines everyone. We hadit at Morphettville. It is not reallynecessary as anyone who tried toescape isolation would soon bedealt with by his tent mates.I can quite understand the horror withBean's letter would be read withnarrow minded females, but ifonly knew of what happens inown country they would getThen again these things alwmuch worse in cold printI don't think it will have theeffect which evidently isthings better with the fcuts. They will soonexaggerated in thethey won't believenow as to the cofeel very wildthis be misundthough he den There is nothing further official.I must say I haven't given up hope altogetherI haven't seen Rand from the 3rdsince I last wrote. I went over to-nightbut he was not about. At any rateyou will have heard before this letterreaches you if it eventuates.I have been reading Sladens book'The curse of the Nile'. It gives avery fine description of the Battleof Omdurman (accent on the lastsyl.) The bits about Cairo are veryinteresting to The Maxwell mentionedas having charge of a brigade isour own Sir John Maxwell incharge of all the Egy troops in Egyptto-day.Everybody is well. My cold has gone& I am feeling in great nick. I havehardly been stiff at all after thegame of lacrosse on Sunday. We aretrying to set up a match for ThursdayS.A. v Victoria & NSW and for Saturday,Australia v England. This early movementmay alter things somewhat though.If we go to France we will be on lines ifcom. etc for sometime I think. Theregoes the 'Lights Out' Good night DarlingYours ever Tom.