Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 3 March 1915 Location: Ionian Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: My Dear Little Wife H.M.S. IonianWednesday March 3. 1915It is difficult to know what to do aboutletters now. They will all be censored & just whatwe will be allowed to say I don't know. I loathewriting letters for the censor more than youdo. There always seems to be nothing to say.I think I will fill in everything I can inthis letter from time to time & have it postedat the first opportunity uncensored.Well we found out yesterday we are boundfor Lemnos an island 60 miles fromthe Dardenelles. Apart from hearing itis a Greek possesion (doubtful) of with13000 inhabitants mostly Greek, I knowabsolutely nothing more.We left Alexandria at midday yesterday.I believe we should have left before butthey did not finish taking all the wood aboard.We are not accompanied by any other boats.She is an awful tub of a boat & pretty dirty.I believe she had been transporting Indiantroops & landed some at Port Said before comingon to Alexandria. The accommodation is verylimited & the food is not as varied as theAccanius but plentiful. There are no Friday March 5, 1915.Here we are lying at anchor off Lemnoswaiting for Greece to declare war at leastthat is the rumour. The harbour is splendidHalf a dozen transports and as manymen of war makes you realise that thereis such a thing as war.We arrived yesterday evening after awonderfully calm voyage. Yesterday wepassed lots of islands of all of whichseemed uninhabited, some of them onlyrocks. As we approached here there werelots of men of war knocking round uslooking very ghostly in the pale moonlightwith not a light showing. I could canmake out what look like at a coupleof battleships or armoured cruisers, adestroyer, two torpedo boats & a submarineThey have been nearly all on the movethe only other transport I can recogniseis the Suffolk. Evidently the 3rd Brigadewas made here. The island from here looksa mixture of rocks & [[dou]] grassy downsa village of about 50 houses liesabreast of us. There is higher landfurther back. If the rumour on thetop of the page is true & Greece does notdeclare war by tomorrow night we will have Sunday April 11, 1915. A mail to-day from Australia.It must have come by a transportthat left Egypt late Wednesday of Thursday.I feel so very sorry at you not getting myany letters for 3 weeks. I didn't miss a mailin Egypt & can't understand it.Your letter was the one covering from Feb 8until March 11. There was one from Campbell& Jack O'Connell. Campbell had evidently writtenme a letter I didn't receive explaining themissed Xmas present. He mentioned hehadn't seen you for some time. You knowthat pretty girl in O'Hallorans officeIris Fisher she used to come down to therowing at the Port. Well I used to teaseCampbell about her. I think he is struckfrom something he says in his letter.The photo I sent him was battered aboutin the face. He remarks that my representationis evidently not as hard as the original.I haven't received the woollen flannelsbut that is not strange as parcels havea habit of turning up a month or so no possible. The greatest ?? successes so far(factors that will loom large in determininga successful issue) are the Allies superiorityin artillery & aircraft; the former dependingon the latter to a large extent. From Belloesarticles you will easily be able to understandwhy. No less interesting are Jane's navalcontributions & Col Maudes' on Engineeringproblems, especially the last two or 3 concerningthe Dardanelles.Nobody seems to have any idea as to ourmethod of attack. It may be at the isthmusof the Gallipoli Peninsula (Bulair) either from theSea of Xeros (Saros) or the Dardanelles, it may belower down on the Peninsula or on theAsia Minor coast & just possible at Smyrnaunless some other body has that job.We don't know how things are going inthe Dardanelles not even if there has beenany fighting there at all recently. hammocks which is a blessing asthey are a nuisance. We are allowednearly everywhere & I have had a good positionon the boat deck to sleep in the two nights.There are an insufficiant number ofmess tables to go round so some haveto eat their meals sitting on their kit bags.Nobody grumbles for a wonder. Notthat it would do any good but soldiersalways grumble even when they arewell treated. It is only until to-morrowthough, so it won't be as bad as it might.We have a great pontoon on board witha stern that drops like a tailboardfor landing horses so we evidently won'tland at a wharf. Exactly what we willdo I can't tell. The only think I can guessis that Lemnos will be a base foroperations against the Dardenelles.We may be there all the time & never seethe Turks.When leaving Alexandria we passed the 'NorthCarolina' an U.S.A. cruiser. Their bandplayed the National Anthem. The deckswere lined & they gave cheer after cheer& dipped their flag while we replied.The sea have been very calm & the boathardly rocks. The usual weekly mail closed last nightbut I didn't write as there was nothingto say.I think No 18 would catch the mooltanarriving in Adelaide about March 24. sopossibly you will get it about the sametime as news of our first engagement comesthrough.I hope you have been able to get a look atcopies of 'Land & Water' They contain are easily thebest articles on the war. Hilla Hilaire Bellocis recognised as the best writer of strategyetc the war has produced. Feb 28, Mar 6 & 13numbers contain articles on the duration ofthe war Of course it is quite impossible to giveany definite date but he gives evidence ofseveral factors that will operate largely inbringing it to a conclusion in the near futureIt is evident from reading Belloc's articlethat the Spring forward movement willnot be ready until may. Then again ifthe exhaustive tatics of the allies maystill be persued so that the least loss of life & everybody seems thankful to have a chanceof doing something at last nobody talksas if he was not coming through alright& all thought conversations touching onthe dangers are jocular. War is a wonderfulthing.Saturday Still more transports coming in,some with regulars from India.It has been rough to-day which may possiblydelay our departure as the men of war maynot have been able to make things ready.We had a trip out this morning in spiteof our protests that was impposible to makeany headway against the wind. After halfan hour we hadn't cleared the ship soput back.It is a great disappointment about this mailThere are only English letters, resorts & parcelsI knew no regular mail was due inAlexandria until this week but there wasjust a chance that other than a mail boathad been used as I believe they have beendoing in Egypt with mails from Egypt lately to move out I suppose. We have no reliablenews at all. I dont know even if wewe are intended to land here. We don't knowwhat is in the wind, what the next 24 hourswill see bring forth. The brigadier wentoff in a pinnace this morning to theflagship. She got ran aground on a little mudisland much to everyones amusement& another pinnace had to haul them offI have an idea Lemnos is mentionedin ancient Greek history. Wasn't somenaval engagement waged near here?Nobody seems to know anything about itDidn't Paul wander round this way too?It is a great disadvantage not havingany books to refer to. I wish the AdelaidePublic Library was handyI have been amusing myself by mendingsocks & clothes sewing on buttons &greasing boots. I have had my rifle topieces & got all the sand out a job thattook me a couple of hours. Apart fromexamination of kit rifles there have beenno parades. There is a great shortage ofbooks but we manage to fill in timesomehow.Saturday night Still here I believe Greece hasleased this island to Great Britain. appearance yet. The reinforcements witha lot of men left in hospital at Menawere drafted in to-day bringing the battalionup to full strengthThe best news I heard is that No.18 wasfixed up & with an ordinary amount ofluck should go through. Chapman cameback in the Osmanieh that Khedival mailpacket. He rejoins his company as headquartersstaff could not put him on their strength.The Malda cast off this morning & so faronly 4 bags of mail have been sent here,mostly English letters & Aust parcels & nonefor me.We were paid 2 each to-day Everybodywas broke including the officers.It looks as if we were off on Monday.No one could possibly gather from theappearance or manner of the men that wewere on the eve of a possible murderousengagement. Life still goes on the same This sounds most likely.A severely censored mail closed to-day.We were not allowed to mention anythingabout the war where we were or even ifwe had left Egypt. I sent you a notefrom which you may be able to gatherwhere we are & that all is well. I alsowrote one to mother & Lex, & a post card toLinda. I don't know how it is goingback.The 9th landed to-day They are going tobivouac for 3 days. The two colonels tossedup for which battalion was to land & asusual 'Flossie' lost. We are to go ashorefor exercise every other day I believe.This is a beautiful harbour, completelylandlocked & evidently very deep & roomyas there is an armoured cruiser a Frenchcruiser 3 destroyers 3 submarines & atorpedo boat besides 7 or 8 transportsThree arrived this morning from Englandwith some Territorials aboard. I heardthere were some marines also aboardanother transport. One of the men of wararrived from the Dardanelles to-dayThe information comes passes through severalhands so it is sure to be garbledThe forts seem to be difficult to complete I was speaking to Cap Baker to-nightHe used to stay at the Coffee Palace & isthe vet. attached to Brigade HeadquartersHe mentioned something about a jobas mounted military policeman but Ithanked him & declined. It might bea farely safe job but policeman I couldn'ttake on. Still I would give alot to be outof B4 command.I finished a most delightful book to-day'Mightier than the Sword' by AlphonseCourlander. It is a very human realisticstory of journalism & except for itsfantastic ending is first class.Well enough for tonight my dear. Goodnight,FridayEverything is bustle & excitementThe [[Lonian?]] with the other 3rd brigade 4 boatsare back near their old positions while theharbour is gradually filling with transportsPractically all the ?? Aust division is hereNo Light Horse have or N.Z. have put in an capture as the Turks keep bringing upfield guns & preventing any parties landing partyThe rumour goes that a force of 500 marineslanded in two parties One was cut upterribly & only 8 returned This seems tobe the only one of many rumours thatis reliable. Apart from this we haveheard no war news whatever.It looks to me as if they will makethis a base for an army operating againstthe Dardanelles. Whether we will seeany actual fighting or not is hard tosay.There was one amusing incident whenthe 9th were disembarking. The shipsboats were in a leaky condition throughthe sun. One started to fill when themen got in. An officer tried to makea cheap hero of himself by gesticulatingin the boat & telling the men to keepcalm as everything was alright. Themen were treating it as a joke whilethe officer seemed the most excited.Of course they were all quickly on boardagain with nothing more than wet feet.The weather has been lovely, mosttemperate neither [[?]] hot nor coldThere is not the extremes in temperature Lieut Robley of in charge of the Machine Gunsection is very ill Rheumatic fever &pneumonia He is a fine chap used to workin Elder Smiths. That reminds me ourold colour sergeant Oliver (whom VeraSewell came down to Morphettville to see)has had a bad time with asthma. It isa toss up whether he will be sent back ornot.We had a trip to the Minerva this afternoon& went on board. She is only a smallcruiser with 6 in. guns & quite a contrastto the 'Liza.The Canopus did a good bit of work lastnight. Captured a steamer flying the Americanflag evidently trying to run the blockade. She waschock a block with ammunition. She islying not half a mile from us now.Loading stores & taking in water hasbeen going on all day & we are off onMonday. we had at Mena either.There were are a lot of little towers on bothsides of the harbour we couldn't at firstmake out. I find they are windmills ofthe Dutch style. There are several hamletsround about. A bumboat was outalongside this morning & quickly sold outof cigarettes, matches, biscuits & walnuts.They could speak English well, I supposemost likely they had been sailors. We have all been paid 30/- each payhow long this is to last us I don't knowI rather like this idea of a diary letterIf I leave a letter until post day I don't seemto be able to get half the filling. Jotting downevery other day or so, seems to lengthen itout though it must seem stale reading whenyou get it. I have exhausted everythingto-night so I will say goodnight darling.Oh another thing that is difficult is tofind new love phrases. I dont like repeatingthe same old ones. I think I will have totry & get that book on 'How to write Love Letters'Sunday night Nothing fresh has happened.The chief interests of the day seem to be thevarious rumours that float round. Theinventive mind of the Australian soldieris superb. I will give you to-day 'latrinograms' The mob 2 or 3 hundred cut the hoses &turned them on the police. The policefired several volleys over their heads but4 or 5 were hit one fatally I believe.A Territorial regiment arrived but weremore inclined to join in than dispersethe crowd. They had all melted awayby 8 o'clock. The N.Zers started the funbut the Australians finished it.I was tipping something like that to happenbefore long with that crowd spoilingfor a fight being kept inactive so long.The details I heard may be quite wrongbut they sound true. I am glad if thosemilitary police got a touch, they have beenlooking for it.The best news of all is that a mail hasarrived 53 bags but a lot parcels Theyare starting on it to-morrow at 6. I mayget my letter in time to reply by the mailclosing to-morrow The [[?]] Island is to be a base for 100,000 troops (2) We willbe here from 4 to 6 weeks (3) The force is to bemade up of English Regulars, Territorialstroops from Malta, Marines & the Australian & NZCorp. The (4) Lemnos is claimed by both Greece& Turkey. G.B. has taken possession at present& will hand it over to Greece at the end ofthe war. (5) Half the 10th is to go for a routemarch to-morrow. (6) The allies troops inBelgium & France have been drivenback 50 miles. (7) The rumour about the500 marines is exaggerated.Whatever is one to do. You can nevertrace the origin of these 'officials' Theofficers are really worse than the men.The admiral came aboard for a fewminutes to-day. Who he is I can't say.There is much more room on board nowthe 9th has gone. They have taken all theirtents. This looks as if rumour No 2 is right.There is no parson on board so no ChurchParade to-day. Disinfecting troop decks instead.This is because of the presence of some speciesof livestock. Luckily I have not been inhabitedyet. I am anxious to get ashore, I scentpages of descriptive matter or attempts atit. Oh well another goodnight I supposeDear it is getting a long time now Thursday The second reinforcements are herealright We went aboard one of the transportsto-night She is the smallest a KhedivalMail Coy liner There are detatchments froof all the Aus. battalion 2nd reinforcementson board the 5 boats now in. This issome of the news I picked up. Alexandriais full of transports so all the division including2nd contingent will be coming here.There was a bit of a rumpus in Cairo theother day something that will make the wowserssecretly rejoice & sermonise Some Maoriwas stabbed or robbed in a house in theWhazi (Bazaar) (a house of ill fame) At about3 the next afternoon a mob wrecked theplace & burnt the furniture in the street'Short of wood' yelled someone & down camea photo yours & mine wardrobe & a piano. They were followedby ladies (?) knickers etc until quite a largebonfire was going. The fire brigade& mounted military police arrived I often feel wild with myself for comingaway. What wouldn't I give for a weekin Adelaide now. It seems so lonely tome sometimes inspite of all the newinterests, but what must it be to you.What a score will be mounted for thatreunion. Goodnight Dearest.Monday night They gave us half an hour towarning for a mail to-day. I was justable to scribble a few lines on any MCAP.C.From it you may gather rumours Nos 1 & 2A & B Corps went ashore for a route marchto-day I did not go as I was on duty ina boats crew taking them ashore & bring-ing them back again. They passed throughtwo hamlets & were greatly impressedwith the cleanliness & the fertility of the soilThe Greek inhabitants speak Arabic as well& the troops were greatly surprised to begreeted with 'Saida' pronounced Say eeda(Good-day) There are two Arabic wordsthat will sure to be Australianised when we getback Saida & Imshi (equivilant to 'getout') This latter word is used to inferiorswhen their presence is not requiredA great battleship came in to-day whichsome of the sailors said was the 'QueenElizabeth' that wonderful new creation of Jack Johnson's defeat. Quite legitimateI suppose on the ground of fighting.That snowcapped mountain I mentionedthe other day was on Monday showing whiteonly in a few ravines. Yesterday morningit was one glistening mass of white againWe can see it quite distinctly fromout present position.B4 has had his moustache clipped inThe approved military style you rememberStewarts) It takes away that greasy Dagolook he had but shows to my ideaa viscious looking mouth. How I loathethat ass. He is only 32 by an Australianmilitary book I picked up I thought hewas about 40. Sunday evenings at aservice Col McPhee holds he flashes aneyeglass. That is the only time it is seenfor very obvious reasons no doubt.Well it's time I turned in so goodnightmy little girl. with the 15 inch guns that was ableto fire on the Dardanelles forts whilsta mile out of range.Some Royal Marine Infantry were aboutto-day but I did not see them. Fromthose that were speaking to them I gatherthat ramous 1,2,3 & 7 are probably truesome of the marines were (ref) those referredto in 7. About 50 had been killed.I did a bit of washing to-day as I couldgot plenty of hot water from the wincherit was easy work. I have overhauled allmy kit & done all the mending possible.It seems strange as there is nothing Ican do. It is the first time in my lifeI have not had something that wanteddoing. It is a most unsatisfactory feelingI don't think I will let it occur again.About the war finishing in May-I am going to alter my opinion to JuneThe Spring army will be later gettingto work than I originally thought. The Asergeant of marines on board to-daythought it was sure to end by June.He had been fighting in France beforecoming here. He witnessed that famouscharge of the London Scottish but I didnot hear of his comments. She was one of the 1st contingent transports fromAustralia.A barge load of horses was re embarked thisevening. They are wonderful submittingvery patiently to be hauled up like inanimatecargo. It was very interesting watching them.You could just imagine them sayingWhat the -How the - Where the - as supportedby a broad felt band reaching from theirfore to hind legs they were whirled aloft.A gentle drop on to the deck a slight pause toclear the tackle & off they were led to theirstalls, not a murmur nor a shiver justa querulous gaze around. I have just hada look at some of them feeding in their stallswith great gusto & quite at home,We had a trip early this evening to the shore& were dug out again at 9.30 to take roundorders & some officers to the 9th landingThe war news to-day says something aboutthe Bulgar Servian incident being patchedup. Sandwiched in between the Russian& French communiques is the announcement I have just finished reading a bookof Warwick Deepings The Rust of RomeHave you read it? I was neither disappointednor enthusiastic. One passage is worthquoting "And by agnosticism he understoodnot that grotesque guy dressed up in misrepresentationsby theologians & petted with paradoxicalsquibs, but a sincerity of mind that comesfrom fearless & cleansing thought.'You needn't read that paragraph out tothe others. I was wandering how you goton with some paragraphs in my letters;whether you ever started on some, that tosay the least, would startle the hearers.I can fancy what mother would look like,& wouldn't Freda have a lot to say.What would you do, flee or blush & faceit out. Wouldn't it be terrible ?It is late now & I have to be at theGangway at 6.30 am so once moreGoodnight my little girl.Wednesday Evening I thought of quite a lotto write about during the last 48 hoursbut most of it seems to have slipped mymemory.I have struck a bonzer job. You rememberthat crew at Adam for rowing the Colonelaround, well it has been called into This morning a C.P.R. boat the Lake Michagan& a P&O Branch liner flying the Australianflag came in & took up berths where we were.Second & 3rd reinforcements are supposed tobe on board.I haven't decided how I am to get this bookto you. Everything in the shape of diaries isprohibited from being carried about. I thinkthe best plan will be to make a parcel ofit & your letters & give them to one of the engineersto post when he gets an opportunity.I want to keep your letters but there is toomuch chance of losing my kit bag so thebest thing is to post them with this bookLaterI was interrupted by word that a mail was closingthis afternoon at 4 o'clock I hastily wrote.to Linda mother Lex Tom Freda & your father notforgetting C8 for you & got them in just in timeNow comes word that the boat that was to takethe mail to Malta is not in harbour.Part of the 4th Brigade (2nd contingent) is onthose two boats that arrived this morningthe Pera arrived this evening from Alexandra requisition again for the use of theBrigadier Colonel & Staff & the Colonel &Adjutant It is practically the same.Rhodes & I are the only oarsmen. The sixothers are all men of warsmen. It hasbeen placed in orders and we are freefrom every other duty. That meansWe miss parades, guards & fatigues of whichthere are plenty. Sergeant Tomlinson isin charge. We have about 2 trips a daythe rest of the time to ourselves. Yesterday& today we were ashore for a few hours.The Greeks come down to the landing placewith their wares in the shape of nuts, orangesTurkish Delight, cigarettes, milk, honey, butter& matches. We had quite an amusingtime with them You never saw The suchan assortment of wearing apparelfustian cap was in great evidence so werethose funny trousers reaching to the kneeswith yards & yards of spare cloth betweenthe legs. Some had primitive rawhidesandals others old boots. One pair of dapperAmerican yellow button boots looked very comicalwith in conjunction with greenish khakiputtees with a red border hem andwhite striped blue trousers & goatskincoat, the fur inside & tanned leather outside lying near us, a most peculiar lookingship. From the front she looks somethinglike this [[tiny drawing]] The decks except a narrow top one must be all coveredin. Probably she is designed as a protectionagainst aircraft The sloping sides would causethe shells to richoch ricochet off harmlesslyTo day comes news of the sinking of a TurkishCruiser by in the Black Sea & an accountof some irregular Bulgarians attacking aServian blockhouse. If Bulgaria comes init may materially affect the part we are goingto take. All the nations seem to have turned mad.We [[m] The Ionian moved in nearer the 9ththis evening quite close to the Nizam Suffolk& Malda. The Navanah came over later so thefleet is altogether.Wednesday It has been as calm as a mill pondto-day. The Malda came alongside & some ofthe A.M.C. with medical stores were transferredThe brigade headquarters staff went over this morningso it may mean the crew being dissolved,They started shipping horses on one of theother boats yesterday. Most had blue stockings showing beautifully shaped calves. The umbiquitousdonkey was also in evidence. They couldspeak very little English, the natives Imean. One had been in Egypt and AmericaHe knew more Arabic than we. They arestarting to charge a bit for 'stuff but itis our own fault for it is only humannature to get the all you can if the buyeris fool enough to pay it.The tower windmills are peculiar affairs I cant very well describe them They are somethinglike this [small drawing]The little triangular patches at the end of the wings arelike little canvas jibs. They are all usedfor grinding corn & flour. There must behundreds on the island.It was quite pleasant to loll about thegrass you see there was none in EgyptEvery inch of land was cultivated so itwas really the first grass we had beenon since leaving Australia. There is a kind of Cognac made on theisland. It hasn't an unpleasant taste& is very mild. By the bye the Colonel hascome to light with a pint of beer both What do you think of Beans latesteffusions It is not a climb downit is a horrible tumble. A typed copyof his cable of March 1st and an letterexplanatory article he wrote has beenposted up. Even now I expect the wowserswill still moralise. Some of the articles& letters I have seen in the Australianpapers fill you with disgust especiallythe one in the 'Mail' by a parsonwith the forces. He doesn't know whathe is talking about.Tuesday The wind dropped sufficiently to allowthe crew to take some orders ashore this morningwe had another trip to the Nizani & Malda whichare lying nearer the 9th jetty than before.Each man has been served out with 150rounds of ammunition. It balances thepack better so won't make be felt much withthe load. The Franconia is expected back ina day or two. The warships keep going & comingOne of the latest French battleships is days which goes very well. There was a typed sheet of war news postedup to day covering from the last week.It proved rumour No6 on page 64 wrong& 7 correct. It mentioned that owing tothe situation in the Dardanelles the troopsat present training in North Africawere to be ready to leave at a momentsnotice. Well all the troops there will notbe used. Perhaps the Aust 2nd contingentmay be but there is bound to be agarrison kept there. I believe a forceof 40000 French will arrive within threeweeks With 40000 Australasians & 20000various the rumoured force of 100000 wouldbe made up. I dont think there is muchin this rumour thoughA I had a very interesting chat to oneof half a dozen sailors last night.They have come aboard from the LordNelson to man a steam furnace leantto tow the boats ashore. This chap wasa real cockney & a fair nut. It isthe Lord Nelson we mistook for theQueen Elizabeth which came in todayThe 'Nellie' took a very prominent partin the bombardment of the DardanellesThe [[Tar?]] told me a lot about it harbour. They buried the poor fellowsthat were entombed in the watertight compartmentson Thursday. I don't know whether theyhad been drowned or killed beforehandthe latter I think. The boat has beencanted down on her stern with the bowsin the air. I don't know what the they aredoing from the tug alongside.I have just read Crowhursts descriptionof the 3 days routemarch & bivouac It covers7 pages so I wont copy it in here. Besidesit will in all probability appear in the papersIt makes me wish I had been there.Having nothing to-do to-day I have read'Babs the Impossible' by It is interestingon account of the conversations & Babswho as a child character is too impossible.To day it has been drizzling all day.Some days it is sunny & quite clear just likean Australian Autumn day. Others aremisty & the surrounding hills just visiblequite like I imagine an English atmosphere Eighteen forts had been demolished when they left. He was one of the crew landingthe marines that were cut up. This fort hadbeen settled some days previously butbad weather had prevented any landingparty. In the meantime the Turks & Germanshad taken full advantage of the time& entrenched themselves very strongly besides having snipers in every availablecover, ruins etc. Evidently the [[reconnoitering??]]seaplanes missed this. The Marines couldntsee where the firing came from evenalot of their shells dont explode & the firingis not very good. The 'Nellie' (nickname forthe Lord Nelson) had no difficulty in silencinga fort with 14 inch guns though her biggestare 12 inch. He was particularly funnydescribing this fort. "All at wance themTurks stahrted comin' aht of that fortin hundreds rahght on top of a hill. Wegave em a salvo at abaht 8000 & gawdblimy, when the dust cleared we hadshot the grawnd they was on away."Somebody asked why they came out ofthe fort. 'Guess it was gettin tooblamming hot in there'The Marines caught one Turk gougingout the eyes of one of the dead. They caught him before he got away, stood himup against a wall and literally shot piecesout of him.Two mine sweepers have been settled. They are only trawlers and drag for mineswith wire ropes. Naturally they takea tremendous risk. There are half adozen in harbour here.A French General arrived yesterday &inspected the camp of the 9thWe have started Bridge again. Thereis to be no stake. I ought to be somethingof a player when I get back.All our horses are going ashore to-morrowWe have about 40 on board. No word of the 2nd or 1st Brigade yet norof any mails.I have had to rearrange my writing kit I can get this book with a few postcardsand paper in my haversack nicely. Yourphoto is in wonderfully good order. Thecardboard covers of the book keep it fromgetting bent. Three of the corners are gone a littlebut the photo is as undamaged as the dayI got it. Do you remember how shy youwere about showing the proof? The tissueenvelope I still have. I like the hazy glimpseI can get of you through it. I always