Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text:astounded to hear of the splendid additionsto the glory box It was very kind ofthem all. I am sorry my Christmaspresent could not be fixed up intime; but there is a hitch somewhere.Perhaps it has by now, but I won't spoilit by telling you about it.coupleI still have a few couple of the first & secondlot of handkerchiefs left. The linen ones youmarked.When writing to Feo last week & a month ago, I forgotto say anything about his birthdaywhich must be passed by now. I canonly be sure of one, the 24th of May. Inever could remember birthdays.I am sorry that Colombo letter hadnot turned up. I think I told you inthat, it was only a minor sore onmy shin. The last Friday night (wh beforeleaving Adelaide (I will always rememberthat night) when we did that famousstunt from Belair, I struck it againsta rail on the way to Long Gully stationBeing on the shin there was no fleshto help it heal. It was never troublesome enough to cause even a limp.Don't trouble about me keeping anythingback. I will always tell you if anythingis the slightest bit wrong, Mind youdo too.I am glad to hear you are going out abit. It is very kind of Feo.There is some talk of a fortnightly mailonly from Australia after the arrivalof that last one. Well I can last outI think, if they are all as nice as theone received yesterday.There are all sorts of rumours aboutthe 3rd Brigade having a turn atIshmalich We are supposed to bemoving at the end of the week. Somethingdefinite will be known before thisletter is posted.This morning the whole of this brigadehad a surprise turnout at 5 o'clockIt does not start to get light until justbefore the sun rises at 6 o'clock.We all had to fall in in full marchingorder & were marched just outsidethe camp in the half lighted dawn. After a short halt we were marched backagain. Breakfast was early & we H Coy leftat 8 for the ranges. We only had 10 shotsat 700 yards in collective platoon fire &10 shots at moving targets at the samerange. The hits on the fixed targets were4 for the whole platoon which they sayis fair. 500 shots & 4hits. It makesyou think a lot of your chance in thereal thing. In S. Africa it took 700bullets to hit a man. I was practicallydeaf after the first third round + thesand dust clouded the targets. It isa peculiar experience lying close togetherwith an incessant roar of musketry.There is no noticeable smoke fromthe cordite cartridges, but the noise,when so close, is deafening A dozenyards away it doesn't sound muchat all. I think it must be the violentaction of the explosive on the air, thattends to deafen you.Thursday Nothing move reliable about our movingToday we had more advanced musketryPlatoons were lined up, doubled 50 yards in sections + fired 3 rounds per manat small plates about 300 yds. Eachsection of from 8 to 10 men had 8 platesI think I told you our section containedall our old Morphettville tent withJack Gordon as section commanderWe got the 8 targets down with oneshot to spare which brought downa plate on No 2 section. It was a recordfor the company & we are entitled toshoot off for a prize offered by Col. Wei[[er?]]for the best section of the battalion.Being more or less of a fluke & 7 or 8other sections getting the same result,I don't think much of our chance.'Gertie' (Lieut. Hosking) shouted us apint of beer all round. I don't thinkI told you our section is knownas the 'Jelly bellies'. Most of the othersbeing of a slightly different class, areinclined to resent any differences thatcommanding officers may show. It isonly human nature. We get on verywell with them however. I have heard arumour to- night that there might be some truth in. The first + second brigadeare to go to Ishmalia & we are to be heldback for reserves, whenever they may wantus. There have been a couple of brusheswith patrols some way the other side ofthe canal but the papers are making alot out of them. I think the Turks are tryingto cause a diversion so as to keep a largenumber of troops an Egypt. It is fairlyeasy for small parties to wander aboutthe desert causing alarms, but the transportof an army is a different thing. A hundredmen could keep themselves supplied for acouple of months with 50 camels but theyhaven't the camels for an army.Friday [underlineWe are gradually getting more advancedin our work. More fixing to-day & nightmanouvres. Last night about 2 we hada turnout & were all back in bed by in halfan hour. Major Brand told us we wouldget 24 hours notice before moving.Mjr. B4 has gone to Alexandria for 3 or4 days to superintend the return of'unfits' from the Division. I don't knowhow many will go from the 10th Fisher's father arrived last night.He is on his way back to Australia.I went in to the Grand ContinentalHotel to see him as Fisher could notget off until this evening. I knewhim immediately. He turns out to bea great pal of Max Anderson's. We haveoften seen him often, on the terracegoing into the Adelaide Club. A tall stinclined-to-be-stout man with a slightlimp, full faced & cleanshaven, witha walking stick & gold rimmed spectaclesFrank Fisher, of Fisher & Culross, lawyersSurely you remember him. He shoutedme a drink & a cigar & made a generalfuss of me. A lady who heard us talkingabout the camp came up & askedme how the best way to get a letteror telegram to a private in the 5th battalionher, nephew. As letters sometimes take2 days + telegrams go astray, whenhandled by natives; I said I wouldbe only to happy to be the bearer.She turned out to be Lady NoraFitzgerald & had come out in the paid some money owing to me. I was notin the usual impecunious state.From 1.30 to 5 was spent in the Museumwith Blackburn. W I had time to take aglance at everything but there were noguides or English books to be had.I haven't the time to describe it. I canonly say it was one of the most enjoyableafternoons, I have spent. If you areinterested in it. you will be able to findplenty of descriptions in the Adelaide P.L.which is rich in Egyptologian works.They would tell you far more than I could.I can quite imagine the buildings costingnearly 200,000.After dinner we went down themonski a bazaar between the stylesof Arab & European. There are somegorgeous things there. I made a fewpurchases which I have posted. In oneparcel are a couple of cushion covers notvery well done, but cheap & typical.The pink & white one has the late Khedive'smonogram in the centre. This is alwaysused on coins in place of a head The Arabic round the sides is 'Mashalla''God always will help you'The peculiarsigns in the corners are ancient Arabic'Good Luck' signs. The green, pink andbrown one has an Arabic inscriptionmeaning 'God will save your parents.Another parcel contains some beaten brassash trays etc. The inscriptions are allordinary Arabic salutations.What I prize most of all is in the firstparcel. Genuine Egyptian antiquitiesI purchased at the museum. They havea sale room where their surplus stockis on sale. The f statuette was foundin a toomb, dating 500 B.C.The Egyptian name of it is 'Ushabti'meaning 'answerer' It is one of manyservants placed to wait on the mummyI won't tell you the cost. It was so infinitis-imal you wouldn't value it. The sameapplies to the little box of wheat found ina toomb at Dair-el- Bahari. 'The NorthConvent) near Lonxor. It was placed there1500 B.C. The best of it all is I know theyare bothe absolutely genuine. We had supper at a French restaurantafter a good look round. We passedby Napoleons house.To-day was company leave day. Halfa dozen of us spent the afternoon atthe Zoo. It is most beautifully laid outIt will be fully described in a guide book.The grotto was wonderful and a view ofthe whole gardens obtainable from thetop. The most recent additions are acouple of kangaroos presented byA.M.C. of the Australians. We dug up afew more places in Cairo we hadnot seen had tea & I came home earlyto finish this letter. I am afraid Iwon't have time to write to your motherI am getting to enjoy each trip intoCairo more than ever. I can't expressmy feelings about it. You can't describeit, you must be there & feel it. I canunderstand now why they talk of the'feel of the East' I would not like tolive in Cairo. It would only be fora holiday. You don't see any middleclass houses in Egypt. It is all the French method of 'pensions' or flatsSome of the richer class houses aremagnificent but there is a lot ofsimilarity of design.I am enclosing some photos Mrs Robin tookon their honeymoon. She had intendedthem for her sister (hence the writing) butgave them to me. I won have not been ableto get any of the wedding yet but am promisedsome in time to next weeks mail.Mrs Honeywill & Mrs Robin are staying hereuntil Feb 17th. Well the best news of allI had my mo. shaved off this morning.I will get my photo taken on post cardsthis week. There goes the 'Last Post' whichis mail closing time so I haven't timefor any more. Goodnight darling.I am loving you all I can. Ever so muchmore than in S.A. Goodnight my little girl Your ever loving boyTom.