Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 26 February 1915 Location: Mena Camp Cairo Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Mena Camp, Cairo.February 26, 1915.Friday My Dear Sweetheart,We are to move Sundayaccording to the latest 'Mulga' The ninth& 11th are not going ahead alone but the3rd Brigade. Perhaps this will be the lastletter you will get from Mena It seemsquite sad in a wayI suppose we must give up No 1 1etterThat chap must have lost it or forgottenall about it. I will go over your letterbit by bit & answer your many questionsWhy do you ask about getting the Trousseauto-gether. Most certainly I want you to & don'tever say or think again that it might have to be givenaway. I feel as certain of coming back wholeas it is possible to be. Moreover the moreI see of this army the better I like my chancesThere is one thing certain A Coy of the tenthwill never get the dangerous jobs to do.The Brigadier & Colonel are fully awareof our friend's incompetence. Then againthe 10th are not the best commandedbattalion in the brigade from what I canhear from headquarters and the brigadieris as careful as it any canny Scot can be From an officer just landed fromEngland comes the news that half the SpringArmy from Britain has been successfullytransported to the continent. This if truewill make our chance of getting intothe firing line rather remote for sometime.How I hate to read of you tearing up anyletters. Don't be afraid of any confusion thromany letters being in one envelope. Iabsolutely love unravelling & piecing themto-gether.The Australian P.O. officials have beenvery generous . It came out in orderswhen we landed here that postageon letters had to be prepaid & this stillholds good as far as this end is concerned.I was surprised in a way about the birthdays.I thought the sequence was in March. How I got that into my head I dontknow. I will write a letter to your motherthis mail though I dont suppose shewill receive it until after Mar. 20 It was delicious hearing of Molliesslang. She must be getting on wonderfullyquickly.I cant think who Vera Rowe is forthe life of me. I seem to know the name yet I cant remember any girl of thatname. Perhaps she believes in Spiritualismor Bhuddism & it was in a former lifeshe missed her chance. However I don'tblame her.I have carefully read over Beansfamous letter. I have an idea therewill be trouble or lots of paper talk. It seems to create great resentment amongthe soldiers. Everywhere . you hearcondemnatory opinions about it. Ona close analysis I can find very littlethat has not some truth in it butthe whole thing creates such a falseimpression. I feel sure it will do muchmore harm than good. It would begrossly unfair to publish the names ofthose sent back & the reason. If theydo there will be trouble I feel sure. Whoever the military authority is whoasked 'But do all Australians drink quiteso much' I don't know but I knowthishe is a wowser or an ignoramusDrunkenness has been comparativelyvery little in Cairo. Think of 20000men landed in a city like Cairo with plentyof money & no restraining influencesand the [[dop?]] liquor to drink. It has all along seemed a marvel to methat there was not much more. Any lady travelling in the last tramsto Mena would have found nothingto remark on except perhaps the crowdednessfor the roofs are crammed as muchas anywhere else. I have seen moredisgusting sights on a Saturday nightstram to Hyde Park than I have seenon the Pyramids tram.The headlines the Advertiser & otherpapers have put in to show it upin the worst line. Bean says only1 or 2% are responsible for all thisunameable scandal. Well that is a verysmall percentage of wasters in any armyand the henious crimes they have committedconsist chiefly of breaking leave Takethe 10th battalion. Seventeen were sentback in the first batch, 10 as medicallyunfit, most of whom will enlist again7 as discharged ie the wasters Bean talksabout. In the second batch 10 of each arebeing returned. Of these more than halfare old hands that is South African soldiers,British regulars or navy men mostly of themdes joining this force as deserters & morethan half are not Australians at all This is I believe about the same over thesame as in the other battalions. Someof the 'wasters' would be the finest soldiersin the world in the firing line butbecause they have more than oncebroken leave for longer than a daythey are classed as deserters and afterbeing at kept in detention here forperiods varying from 7 to 28 days arereturned. One man as an instance fromour company. Scotty Robertson a fivefoot six nuggetty chap immensely popularwith officers & men especially with Major Hurcombefor whom he would do anything. Fourteenyears in the Black Watch is Scottys recordwhen he was on parade no neater, smarter,more soldierly man could be found Anddrill, he was a picture to watch. ButScottys only fault was booze. A few drinkssent him over & then arose his violentdislike to policemen. Luckily, he d neverdid any harm as the Red caps know howto deal with tights. He didn't reckon thenative policemen worth calling such. Our 'old woman' got her say at last(though Hurcombe was heard to sayhe wished he had a regiment of Scotty's)and Scotty is going to Australia to hop into the next contingent byhook or crook. This case is not peculiar. I am firmly of the opinion thatthe heads who are responsible forthis returning are poor judges ofhuman nature. There was a realrotter in this battalion who got 12months in the Malta gaol (whichwill not be unfamiliar to him) forhitting Froggy Oldham. He was a cockneyregular & joined as a deserter.The slovenly appearance of some menis easily accounted for by the sloppy& only uniform we had. Every manhas always been critically inspectedbefore going to Cairo but if his one &only uniform has been showing theresult of 5 months constant wear,who is to blame. It is all rot aboutold soldiers showing off. This aloneshows Bean off as being unreliable.I have spoken to lots of veterans, we havefrom A Coy who could be relied on foran opinions worth havingas to why most offenders are old soldiers. Our SergeantMajor who has been a soldier all his life& seen more than one campaign putthe position this way. When a recruitjoins the Regulars discipline of the hardestsort is down on him from thefirst hour If he is any good it mayslacken but the discipline is there as isthe commanding officers judgement inknowing how to deal with men.In this force it was quite the oppositeDiscipline was very slack at first& gra tightened spasmodically andthe officers did not know how todeal with men. These old soldiersof the unsteady sort took advantageof any licence & the heads dont not knowinghow to deal with them have resortedto discharging them & inspiringarticles like Beans to shift the blame.If things are no worse than in anyother army (from what I hear we areangels to streets above the Canadians) why doall this harm by these flaring headlines Do they imagine they will improvethings this way? If they do I knownothing about human nature. They sent a circular to the secondcontingent on their arrival atPort Said which accused us of Scandalsin a similar strain to Beans letters. When theylanded they found most of itto be round exaggerated & what was the result. They were more 2nd contingentdrunks in Cairo their first week oflanding, than in the first week ofthe landing of the first, 3 times theirnumber.Then these unmentionable diseases. Egypthas been notorious for venereal diseasesince history began. The very ancestorsof these people were the ones who helpedto introduce syphillus into Europethrough the Crusaders. They are supposedto be under control of the authorities& medically examined but they are not. The semi respectable demi-mondes seem to be the worst& the result is that the proportions ofofficers bitten is as great as the men. These diseases can be prevented to a certainextent, but the authorities did not takesteps in time.Well I feel much better having got allthis off my chest At anyrate you willbe able to size up the truth of Beansor any other article for yourself.I am enclosing 2 photos taken atlast Sunday's lacrosse match. Thegroup is the 10th battalion team & readingfrom left to right show Top Du Rieu(referee) Edwards, Whyte, Nott, Gordon, Edwards & Blackburn. Bottom row Rent, White HH,White Rh., Gower, Fordham & Rhodes. Theduet is supposed to represent me ina characteristic attitude 'hummingcigarettes' I am not quite as blackas the photograph would have you believe. You can just see the a Maria tramin the background of both. The treesare on the Pyramids road. We couldnot show the do. as a backgroundon account of the position of the sun. I got hold of some interesting particularsof the fighting on the Canal. MajorBrand & some other officers went downto have a look round afterwards &this is from his lecturette to #4Platoon whom he happened to come acrossin the desertThe British forces pumped water fromthe canal into the low lying ground shown insketch as A & B (shaded) rendering attackon Kantara only possible where our forceswere most strongly entrenched Y - ZThe first attack took place at 3.26 am butwas easily repulsed At exactly the sametime a Turkish force of unknownstrength advanced right up to the Canalto a point marked X between Ismailia& Yessoum & launched galvanized ironboats. The fighting at this point was veryfierce for a time but in the end theenemy were repulsed (This is evidentlywhere that strategy described in a previousletter was shown by our forces)Had they brought forward their 25000troops in reserve about 6 miles awaythe issue may have been different.There is some who believe the reserverefused to go forward.The boats were used by the Turks hadbeen dragged across the Sinai Deserton sledges by relays of menWonders will never cease. The secondlot of 'wasters' were to have embarkeda week a go but the boat was notready. The were all sent to Abbassia 3 or 4 days ago & placed under guardthere. Half an hour ago Scotty turnedup here & made straight for MajorHurcombe who has promised to dohis best for him. He only heard yesterdaywe were to move soon. However he brokeaway goodness only knows.'Ah thought Ah wud be able to keel afew more Germans if Ah went wi thisforce instid of ha'ing to gaw to Australi& back' he explained to the Major:What a character he is.We are still in the dark as to ourdestination or actual date of departureSince writing on Tuesday the war newsunfolds yet another likely objectiveI mean Constantinople. If the Alliesintentions are serious & a Russianattack is really intended on theDardanelles an Australian landingparty from this side would possiblybe a help. Still what's the use ofall this surmising. You will knowlong before this reaches your I expect.A & B Coy did all the Divisional guards& fatigues instead of the 9th Battalionfor the 24 hours commencing 5 pmyesterday. I caught an easy guardon the 'Strand' the shops atthe back of the lines from 'Retreat'to 'Reveille' only so I have hadmost of to-day to myself. There isgreat activity preparatory to strikingCamp. I believe we are taking ourtents with us. There has been freshissue of nearly all clothes. I believewe are to get caps the same as thesecond contingent. I have 4 pairsof boots now which I managed to getby gentle engineering The onesI had at Morphettville are as goodas new in spite of two being twicesoled. It will be a job to pack mykit bag Four shirts, two cap comforter1d, 4 belts, 2 singlets lined with wool6 pairs of socks & everything elseissued.There doesn't seem to be much freshin war news. The Russian retirementout of East Prussia was expecteda month ago in highest militarycircles. I am enclosing a cuttingthat may interest you.We are going on leave to-morrowSunday. We are off at 7pm to-night march to Cairoentrain at 11 & reach Alexandria early to-morrow morning the 10th are embarkingon the 'Ionian' destination unknown.We had our leave yesterday. We managedto get up a team to play the Englishmensome of the best players could not go& their places had to be taken by 5 veryraw mugs. I suppose I will have to blamethem for our horrible licking of 20 to 6.The Terriers played a very fine game& I can quite believe they would beatany team left in England. I was selectedas captain. The Terriers had the advantageof us in having had plenty of practise & theirown stick Out [[hole in paper]] was very erraticI managed to get one of the 6 goals! Inthe evening several of us dined atthe Restaurant Parisian and aftera short wander around came homeWe struck tents at 6.30 this morning& have been straightening the place upsince It will take us all day so Iwont have time to write anymoreI hope we get our mail this weekbefore leaving leaving. It is quite likely wewont leave Alexandria for a week asI believe the whole division is to goThey are calling me Good bye for the present darlingRemember every week parted will make the reunionmore wonderful Your loving husband Tom.