Author: Thomas Anderson Whyte Rank: Private Date: 1 March 1915 Location: Alexandria Egypt Regiment: 10th Infantry Battalion 3rd Bridgade Nationality: Australian Text: Alexandria,March 1st, 1915.My Own Little Girl,It is now 5pm & we are likely topull off at any time. I posted No 16 fromCairo but as late orders came out that allletters were to be censored it may havebeen held up on that account. I sentyou a postcard to this effect.We left Mena at 8 o'clock last night marchinginto Cairo where we waited for a coupleof hours in the square of the Kasr el Nilbarracks at present occupied by a regimentof Lancaster Terriers. Although it was 11 when wearrived they were kind enough to opentheir canteen & we soon bought them outof pudding, bread & cheese, cold meats, teaetc. The march from there to the railwaystation (central) was about 1 milesThe roads all the way were be tarred macadam& played up with our feet a little, after beingused so much to sand. none of them seemto be sore to-day. We had a slow trainjourney of about 5 hours which landed usin Alexandria at 8 this morning.I was sorry the journey was mostly inthe dark as I would very much like tohave seen a bit of the Delta. As it was We saw quite a lot this morning.Vivid green every where. What intensecultivators the Egyptians are. Every squareyard seems to be utilised. They don't wasteground on fences not even round therecemeteries which have no dividing linebetween them & the fields. The villages aremuch the same as near Cairo. Mud shambleswith an appearance of being all joined togetherwith no system or method whatever. The oneswe saw this morning were lower roofed thannear Cairo, smaller & with frequent domesYo It is not hard to imagine how Egypt supports22 million people. I don't think you could everbe out of sight of one of these villages in anypart of the valley. I have heard a yarn thatLord Kitchener while a captain in the Egyptianarmy disappeared for 3 years. He spent it'doing' Egypt as a native. If it is true whata wonderful story he could tell.The Ionian is not a large boat, about 6000 tonsI think an Allan liner from the American trade.She has just come from India. Some shellsshe bought that need refilling as well as otherCargo for England has been landed hereThere was large quantities of firewood waitingto be loaded when we arrived. These twocircumstances conclusively [[prove?]] we arenot going to Europe. Firewood would only bewanted in a desert. The general opinion nowis Alexandrietta or Jaffa to cut up the railwayso as to successfully prevent any raid onEgypt for some time.The accomodation is not quite as good as onthe Asconius but as it will only be a 3 or 4days trip we wont notice it. The 10th & 9thwith Brigade Headquarters staff are on boardThis morning while waiting for our time togo on board (11.30) Smith Jose Fisher & I dida slope to the city. We drove about the narrowstone paved streets for a while & then pulledup at a fine hotel in the European quarterWe had a magnificent feed of ham & Eggs& coffee & came back without being missedAlexandria is different to Cairo. There isa much greater number of Europeans (mostly Dagos)about. The streets we went through had alla similar appearance being both a closermixture of Eastern & Western than Cairo.There they are nearly all distinct. Of coursewe only had time to see very littleThe harbour is full of shipping & a lot oflikely looking transports are about. We willprobably pull out to night into the streamGoodness knows when you will hearfrom me again. I haven't the slightest idea of what the mail arrangements willbe. We may be only there a few days or wemay be there a month. I hardly think wewill see any fighting. We will be well abovethe Turkish raiding army. If they metus I hardly think they would fight. Theymust be in a most deplorable conditionThe state of the prisoners in Cairo couldhardly be worse whatever must theirstate now be.I have joined a cable league. anythinginteresting is cabled to Fordham the brokerin Adelaide who send postcards out to abouta dozen of our fellows people. Your namehas just been added to the list, at leasthe was informed last mail. I only heardabout it yesterday Saturday or I would havejoined before. a cable was then sent 'Leavingall well' as much as the censor would allow.In case of anything serious a private directcable would be sent. Fordham has theshortest cable address & the best means ofinforming those in the 'ring'.It is getting late now & I think I had better closeso as not to miss any chance of posting. I willtry & send a series of postcards of the 'Book ofthe Dead' the Egyptian Bible at the same timeThe only thing I feel concerned about is that Idont know when I will get another letter from youGoodnight my darling angel. Your own boy Tom.