Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 20 September 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 20. 9. 1916.My dear mother,Since last writing my usual weeklyletter we have had another little "stunt" which hasI suppose been duly reported in the papers. The Turkshave an advanced post at the place called Bir-el-Mazar(you will remember that "Bir" means a well) which isabout 20 miles west of El Arish that is nearer to us.Our object was to make a reconnaissance in forceto ascertain the numbers there & if they were not invery great strength to try & take the place, butby no means to be involved in a serious action.I cannot tell you our exact position here but weleft here at midnight last Friday & travelled to ahod called Salmana which is the last of placewhere good water can be obtained. There we restedall day but unfortunately could not sleep muchas too much movement was going on. Thesight when we moved off the previous night wasthe most picturesque one I have seen, as it wasbright moonlight & column after column ofmounted men could be seen moving silently off inaway followed by the gun teams & their businesslike burden & then the ambulance with its sandcarts & camel stretchers for the wounded, thered cross on it's white background showing up clearlyin the moonlight I was in charge of the camel convoy which consistedof certain stretchers arranged one on each side of acamel for lying down cases & seats similarlyarranged for sitting up cases. Then we hada certain number of medical baggage &water for wounded. We fared very well in thehod next day as we had brought tinned fruitwith us & our cook made good tea. In additionwe had brought watermelons as the Bedouinsin the region had sown acres & acres ofthem in the lowlying desert near the sea& they are lying about in profusion so theold saying that the desert shall blossomas the rose is partly true already.We were disturbed in our afternoon rest bythe appearance of a hostile plane whichhovered over us for a while & we thought hewould drop bombs but instead he turnedhis machine gun on us although he wasat great height & by an unlucky chancehit one of the men who was watering horses.The poor fellow died soon afterwards & wasburied in a couple of hours & I think theinsecure tenure of life was never so broughthome to me as then for that poor fellowalive & well was next in a couple of hourslater dead & buried just by an unluckyshot as the aeroplane could not possibly expect to aim straight from such a height& travelling so quickly. That night we movedoff at dusk & followed that old caravanroute I have described to you. We had tocover 22 waterless miles attack the place &return next day to the abovementioned hod.Travelling in a considerable body of troups evenmounted is very slow work & 3 miles an hour isa good average pace & when going intoenemy country there are numerous inevitablehalts. My camel convoy was very slow -camels always are & we dropped behindthe main column of necessity & followedin their tracks. It was a dreadfullyweary march as we had been without sleepthe previous night & towards 3a.m. wealmost slept on our horses. The old trackran frequently between sand dunes some hundredfeet in height & the sand was often very softbut in parts where it was lowlying it wasmoist encrusted with salt from seafiltration I presume & one stretch of acouple of miles was as hard as amacadamised road & so delighted werewe to feel firm ground again that wegot off & walked practically the wholeof that distance. We arrived at our objectivenext morning & the dispositions of the force were made so as to surround the place almost onthree sides. A Turkish camel patrol wassurprised & captured asleep on their postsby one of the regiments. They were fine big chaps& looked fat & well & were by no meansdistressed by the fact that they were prisoners.They were dressed in a brownish green uniformwith gay colored caps & were mounted ongood camels. A few shots were fired soonafter dawn & continued intermittently for sometime when our artillery came into play & didsome very effective work. I left the camels& went forward with Major White of theAmbulance to our sand carts in therear of the firing line & we viewed thevillage from a hill. Everything was veryquiet however & no serious attack wasin progress. One of our aeroplanes cameover very low down in spite of the factthat their anti air craft gun fired shotafter shot at here & she continuedflying about unconcernedly overthe enemy's position round with the airround her full of the white & black puffsof shrapnel. Soon afterwards word cameto say that no serious attack was tobe made as the enemy was stronglyposted & it would be too costly so we gradually withdrew. We had a spellfor lunch & made tea & then continuedour way homewards arriving at our oldhod at 8p.m., spent the night there &came on here at 4.30a.m, next dayvery tired & very thirsty but glad to beback in our little humpies again.The casualties were very slight & we broughtback about 30 prisoners I believe. ThreeTurkish sergeants came in next daywho were tired of soldiering under Germandomination & one of them said that if hewere allowed to go back he could bringalong his whole company, but I'm afraidhe couldn't be trusted that far. I sincerelyhope your health has improved & father'salso - I wish I could get home & seeyou again as it is well over a yearsince I left but I'm afraid there islittle chance just yet, but let us hopethat the war will not last very muchlonger. One grows very tired of soldieringat times & longs for the old civilian lifewith it's work & it's pleasures & we alllong for it's speedy return. Everythingseems to be going very well just now.But I must close as the Colonel wantsme to go for a stroll with him to get a few ripe dates from one of the hodsnear by - wish you could have one.Best of love to all & a doubleshare to mother fromHer loving sonWilf.