Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 26 June 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 26.6.1916.My dear mother,All the New South Wales peopleappear to have had bad luck lately asneither Wesley Bucklan or myself have hadany letters so the N.S.W. bag must havegone to France or some other queer place,so we must wait patiently for next mail.I understand that the Orient boats goround the Cape now consequently wereceive mails much less frequentlythan formerly. I have very little to tellyou in this letter as matters go on inso similar a way but Wesley has goneaway sick & left me rather forlorn.He developed a bit of a temperature afew days ago which increased & hegot what seemed a rather severe attackof influenza & so I went to thepeople at the Ambulance & suggestedmoving him from the regiment & wasvery glad when they decided to sendhim to Ismailiah where there is agood hospital & nice nurses to waiton one. I think he will probablybe as well as ever in a couple of days & then have a jolly good time & the changewill do him a lot of good ashe was rather in a depressed moodlately. His is one of those volatilenatures which responds readily to outsideinfluences making him very lively in goodcompany & so in the reverse he suffers agood deal from the monotony of the desert.So I think he was rather lucky gettinga bit sick as he will probably havea good trip to Alexandria after it.I myself am very well & in goodgoing order though I can hardly sayI am enamoured of the life. I hada bit message the other day from the Ambulanceasking me how long I had held mypresent rank & whether I had enlistedfor one year or the period of the war.I wasn't sure but fancy that it was ratherindefinite - wished I could have saidone year but only a few importantpeople A were able to do that, so Ireplied that I didn't know how longI had enlisted for but that I had held my commission for over twelvemonths - & I might have addedthat I wouldn't mind howsoon the war ended. The healthof the men is remarkably good outhere & I send away very few sick- we pride ourselves of course that theinoculation for typhoid etc & goodsanitation are largely responsiblebut even though the climate is hothere & the nights very dewy it isapparently healthy in this land ofthe burning sun, & epidemics apparentlydo not flourish easily in anisolated camp like ours. We have alot of sores of various kinds to treatthough, particularly since the summercommenced as apparently every smallabrasion becomes more or less septic& the heal only with difficulty.Still the treating of them gives ussomething to do & keeps us interested.My direct chief the A.D.M.S. of thisdivision (Assistant Director of MedicalServices is what those letters signify)told me recently that the number ofsick we evacuated from here was extraordinarily low & too good to last- but I hope not. Well well, my dear,no more news so must closewith love to all & a double shareto mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.P.S. Please don't let any newspapermen get hold of any little clippingsfrom the above