Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 29 August 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Syrian Desert Nationality: Australian Text: 29. 8. 1916.My dear mother,Mail arrived last night & thoughI received no letters from you or the family Ireceived that boncer billy & a fine parcel ofbooks from Harry. I think the billy should havecome last mail, for parcels are generally a littlelate & probably New South Wales letter bag did notarrive with the others. My dear, the billy wasbeautiful, it reflected mother all throughcontaining as it did all those little thingsthat only mother can think of. It arrivedat such an opportune time also as we areso far out at present that we are unableto purchase things directly & the arrival of sucha fine assortment fulfilled many wants. Mytoothbrush has been a source of anguish forsome time. The sweets were real good as wheneverwe are right away on army rations only we alwayshave a desire for sweets as at Gallipoli whereasin base camp we seldom touch them. Thecake is appearing at afternoon tea - six ofus mess together here - Colonel, second in Command,Adj Adjutant, Quartermaster, Signalling officer & myself. So we will have some opinions on Mrs T's cake.Did I ever thank Mab for her socks - I forgetat any rate they were splendid & saved mylife on this stunt as all my thin ones arein rags & tatters. Harry's books were alsovery opportune, please thank him very much - Ionly wrote him a few days ago. We have beenwithout reading matter here except for papersby the mail & they will be very acceptableindeed. As a rule we have plenty of reading materialsbut just now are very short so you canimagine that they are welcome. Since I lastwrote to you we have had another little stuntbut this time without any fighting, as the Turksappear to have made a thorough exit. Wemade a reconnaissance in force eastwardsleaving one night at 11 p.m. , our hope beingthat we might round up a few of theenemies patrols or see what he was doing.We travelled all night & right on until 8 a.m.when we were very glad to halt. The night wasat first pleasant but about 3 a.m. becamevery cool as it tends to do in Egypt &our outer clothes were quite weth with dew(no rheumatism my dear) & we were glad when day broke & it became warmer though it isgenerally uncomfortably warm at mid-day.We first went over ground we had previouslybeen over & had traversed & fought over & passedbeyond it to new regions. The countrysoon after daylight changed from the.usual soft rolling desert with occasionalrises and depressions to an ismon seriesof enormous sand dunes which extendfor a great distance in this region, comprisedof very fine sand like flour in whichthe horses sink almost to their bellies& rising generally for 200 or 300 feet inheight & falling precipitously on theEastern side, in fact they are often so steepthat large detours must be made togo round them. After braf travelling forsome miles in this country we came ona few palm trees & there we rested &fed our horses at 8 a.m. but we couldnot water them as the only smallwell had been filled in by the Bedouins.One small Bedouin boy was captured withsome sheep & goats he was shepherding.His father had been taken prisoner the previousday by some New Zealanders I believe. He seemed quite happy & took some water we gavehim with great pleasure & chewed green datesfrom the palms. All these Bedouins are beingtaken in as they act as spies for theTurks. They manage to live out here by grazingsheep & goats on desert grass & watering themin the wells in the hods & they gather the dateswhen ripe & export them. They live in hutsmade of palm leaves in rather a miserablefashion & live I think mainly on dates& the sheep & goats. We have seen manyof their huts mainly burnt down & havefound a good number of old dishes clothes Etc. belongingto them. To continue the story - we rested untilmidday then saddled up again turned North& in this direction came out of the dunessoon - very fortunately & caught a glimpseof the Meditteranean, the first for many months& then turned west again on our homewardway arriving about 7 p.m. just about astired as you would wish to be. The lastsix miles were the longest I have evertravelled, We had tea & went to bed& needed no rocking. I forgot to say thatour advance patrols sighted Turks inthe distance, but could not catch them. LaterI had to leave this letter & the 3rd sheetvanished somewhere. Must finish now asit is 7 p.m. & we rise at 3 a.m. tomorrowfor another small stunt. There is somenews - I received a telegram from theA.D.M.S. that I was to report forduty to the 3rd L.H.F. Ambulanceas soon as relieved by another medico.This was to be today but he didnot turn up, but expect he willarrive tomorrow so please addressletters there, 3rd L.H.F. Ambulance(in full) is address enough but youmay add 3rd L H Brigade A.I.F. if youwish. It is the same old address youhad at Anzac. It will be a change &I want to get a good grip of Ambulancework, as I have not had much experiencein it yet. Also it will please you as itis less exposed to risk although theregimental job is not very risky underthese conditions - different to France. theslaughter there seems frightful. Youneed not worry yourself at all about mehere my dear. I was rather pleased thatthe Ambulance people asked for me & seemed anxious to have me there. The belt yousent is a beauty my dear, (I mentioned it in thelost sheet) & I am wearing it at present.You would smile to see me writing this incandle light, sitting on a biscuit box usiwriting on a rough table made of biscuit boxesbroken up and nailed on two beams supportedon oatbags filled with sandbags. Weare Our arbor is formed of a palmtreewhose leaves are drawn down & fastened atthe sides to more palm branches crisscrossed& fastened in the ground. One part formsour resting room in the day, another the messwherein is the above mentioned table.Must finish & go to bed my dear.Hope you are well.Many thanks again for Billy &to Harry for the books &best of love fromyour loving sonWilf.