Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 24 January 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Sent to Harry.24.1.1918My dear mother,I have just sent off to you aregistered packet of photos which I hope youwill receive safely. I went through my papers &collected all the oddments which had beenlodging there for some time past & just prior tosending these away the photos I had taken ofthe recent Palestine operations came along &I sent them also. They are really quite a goodinteresting lot & I was very pleased with them &hope you like them also. We are now livingmuch the same life as we did at this time lastyear when resting back at El Arish, only weare farther North & it is a little colder.The men are training & sports are the order ofthe day, each different unit is trying toarrange something to try & amuse & entertain the men. Sickness is now very slight-it always is in winter & the men are allin very good fettle. We have had rathera busy week de-lousing them, as duringoperations it was impossible for men towash themselves or their clothes much & theyaccumulated horrible numbers of lice & weeventually secured the disinfecting trainfor our Division. This consists of an ordinaryengine with two ^closed trucks attached, fitted withiron doors & steam pipes & the clothes arestacked inside this on racks provided forthe purpose, the doors closed & steam turnedon. Steam of course destroys all leatherarticles so breeches with leather facingscannot thus be treated. While theirclothes are being steamed the men goabout in their overcoats & boots & thosewith leather faced trousers iron them withhot irons provided for the purpose or elseexpose the inner sides to a steam jet whichproves fairly effective. After hour theyget their clothes back & their overcoats arethen done. It took us three days to do theDivision & we have just finished. I neversaw men worse afflicted with lice than theywere this time & the eggs were sometimes insolid masses.Otherwise I have been continuing my Sanitary inspectionsstirring up one or another so as to get theminto good trim. We generally have a gameof cards in the evening so that time passesfairly pleasantly save that I wish one couldbe going on with medicine instead of ratherstagnating. I wonder how you areprogressing now & whether you have yetfound a suitable place to live in, supposeyou are still house hunting.Several fellows have gone off to England onleave from here this week whose homesare in England - Musker, Cavanagh, Ford Young& Col Preston, so I think they will havean adventurous time as submarines stillseem to be present in the Meditteranean.One of our medicos in charge of a SanitarySection went home to get married & wastorpedoed on the return trip but fortunatelyreached land minus his baggage.News very scarce my dear so will close,hoping the photos reach you safelywith best of love to all & a hugfor mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.Some distance away from Jack justat present so haven't seen him forsometime.