Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 6 December 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L. H. RegimentAnzacDecember 6th 1915. My dear mother,I am writing under very different conditionsfrom last week as the snow has cleared away & the weatheronce again gloriously fine & warm in the daytime with slightlyC cold nights. The snow lay on the ground for severaldays, much longer than I have ever seen in Cooma excepton the main mountain ranges & while it remained thedays were very cold & the ground a veritable quagmire inthe day & a skating rink at night when it frozeFortunately it has gradually become warmer & the groundhas dried so that today I am enjoying a splendid sunbath. W Our Australian troops came through the trying coldweather very well - I had only one case of frostbitein my regiment & that not very serious, but weare fortunate in our position on the hills as the waterdrains away so quickly, but not so on the lowlyingground towards Suvla Bay where the troops hadrather a bad time. The Ghurkhas appear to havesuffered most severely & there were a good numberof cases of frostbite there amongst them, some verysevere I believe. Poor chaps, we all like the Ghurkasthey are such stout sturdy little chaps alwayswearing a cheerful grin on their faces. It is a very difficult thing to contend against,I mean frostbite, when men have to stand on observationfor a couple of hours at a stretch, when the trenchesare covered ankle deep in snow & slush & thetemperature nearly at freezing point, but wedo what we can. We are fixing up lines in thecook houses for drying socks & all the menhave plenty of these thanks to the good people athome & instructions are being given for greasingboots & a xxx great number of Wellingtonboots & waterproof capes issued. OurAustralian Government certainly spares no expensefor the sake of it's fighting sons. We all appreciateout here the goodness of the folk at home for theway they have subscribed money & kind, whichare now arriving in the form of gifts for the troops& are being distributed amongst them. These smallluxuries are a delight to the men for althoughthey are fed excellently, the addition of somedifferent items to their diet gives them all & Iinclude myself an almost childish joy. For instancetoday the second instalment of Lady Hamilton'sgift stuff was distributed & each man receivedtwo ounces of milk chocolate & some lollies, thefirst we had tasted for many a day & it reminded me forcibly of the days when Mab & I walkedround the shops seeking where we couldget the largest number of sweets for our penny.I am chewing them now & enjoying them. On aprevious occasion from the same fund, pickles, chutney& sauce were given & formed a very welcome additionto our fare. I also received in common with manyothers a tin of Carbolic tooth paste which will beuseful later as I have only just started on mine the 3rd& last tube I brought over with me, & a writingpad containing envelopes which was just the thingI wanted as my reserve stock of writing paper &particularly envelopes was getting a little low. Thenwe were given this week a large number of cigarettes& very good ones too, the best I have had sincebeing over here, from a fund collected by theBritish Overseas Club or rather the AustralianWar Contingent Association in London associatedwith the name of Catherine McBride which wasstamped on each cigarette - I think she isan Agent General's daughter but am not sure.I can well appreciate the sacrifices which arebeing made by our home folk to provide solarge a number of men with gifts, & it mustbe gratifying to know that they give so muchreal pleasure. During the cold snowyweather of last week the seas became very rough & fresh meat & bread could not be landed inconsequence for nearly fully a week & we had therefore toresort to the supplies of bully beef & biscuitson the Peninsula & you can imagine therejoicing today when bread & fresh meat camealong again. The seas were so rough thatseveral jetties were washed away & severaltrawlers were sent ashore at the Island ofImbros from where we appear to get oursupplies. A party from our brigade had goneacross to buy canteen stores there & hadsome exciting experiences, one lot spent fourdays on a small trawler unable to land & havingonly the clothes they stood up in on their backs& half the stores they were bringing back werewashed away, so I suppose we will payrather heavily for the remainder but that isof little consequence as we can spend so littlehere. I think some of this party went fromisland to island with an interpreter to buystuff from the Greeks so I expect they willbring a good deal back, or rather have broughtsome already as it is being distributed now.I am now comfortably established in my new dugout& dressing station & am very pleased with it.We dug a big square outer do out of the sideof the hill, or the stretcher bearers dug it to be accurate made the front wall of sandbags & partitionedoff part with sandbags for my room & then roofedthe whole with a tarpaulin. My door - formed bya rubber sheet leads directly into the dressingstation so that it is not necessary for me togo outside in order to attend to anyone in thestation. My room is about two yards wide, four yardslong, has several biscuit & ammunition boxes let intothe sandbag partition to hold my clothes, has astretcher supported by sandbags about 2 feet from theground underneath which I keep the "medical comforts"for any sick men I keep up here - arrowroot cornflourcondensed milk, jellies, flour, sugar, pea soup, bovril,golden syrup - I have a box at the head of thebed for my lamp books etc which I may read whenunder the blankets the butt of a sandbag attachedto the wall in easy reach for smoking materials,so that you see it is all very convenient. In thedressing station we have put in a stove for thewinter, formerly we boiled our water for foments &dressings outside & my two men cooked their mealsoutside, but the approach of winter weather madeit necessary to have more warmth inside, so we havecut out a piece of the earth wall big enough tohold an oil drum, then made a chimney by diggingdown from above until we met this hole & thenfashioned the oil drum as a stove by cutting outpart of the end & connecting that to the chimney & perforating one the upper side (it is laid flat) to standin order to allow the heat to go through on thepots & cut out a piece in front for admissionof wood. It works beautifully & smokesvery little indeed. I am sending you a cabletoday for Xmas, just received an acknowledgementfrom the Cable company at Alexandria re my last to say that it had been received bythem on Nov 16th - so you see it takes a lettersometimes nearly three weeks to come from Alexandria here.I hope you are all well & in goodspirits as I am, particularly sincethe weather mended & we got backto bread & fresh meat (you've no ideawhat a large part ones stomach playsover here - I fear this has been a very stomachyletter). Best of love to all & a doubleshare for mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.