Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 22 October 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 22.10.1916.My dear mother.I am once again at the Ambulance &can sit down at a table & try to write a decentletter in comparative comfort if I can only thinkof sufficient material to write about. I spentjust a week with the Camel Corps & though thethree officers there were very decent fellows I wasglad to return again to the Ambulance. TheseCamel Corps are used to transport our stores & water& are manned by Egyptians with a few white officers.You would be astounded to know the immense numbersof camels required for the supply even of a smallarmy & that I am unable to give you even an approximateidea on account of censorship. The Egyptians workrather well on the whole but must be kept wellin hand by severe discipline & their usualpunishment here as in their own villages is bymeans of the whip & often the most posterior &softest portion of their anatomy is in a sorrycondition as a result. They are very cunningin Oriental fashion & while I was at the Corps severalmen were brought up on the charge of knockingout a Camels eye - they are cruel wretches & bangthe poor camels about the head with huge sticksif not watched with the above mentioned result. They were told that if they did not tell whichof them did it they would all be floggedbut refused as they always do but oneman said that a man who had been sentto hospital told him that it was one particularman. Fortunately the man had not been sentto hospital & denied all knowledge ofthe matter so the cunning fellow's statementwas bowled out In the end they all had to getwhacked as no sense could be obtained & theywere obviously trying to cover up the matter.We built ourselves a fairly comfortable home withthe aid of the niggers, but I didn't like seeingtheir dirty black hands passing the foodalong to us. We were not very busy so I used togo out riding with one or two of the officers tosome date hod or other where we could obtaina good feed of ripe dates, & I woud camehere on a visit a couple of times. At thebeginning I had a very busy time as when Iarrived the camp was pitched just where theTurkish trenches had been & was coveredwith litter from the Turks & several dead Turkswere buried in the camp area. So I immediatelysaw the commandant of the whole area &moved them away about a half a mile.Then I had to set to work & fix them upfor sanitary materials Etc & see that they were well isolated from all the others &see that their water fantassies (iron tanks[*rectangle*] shaped thins about 3 x 2 x but which are carriedby camels) did not come into contactwithany other peoples at the water dump, &carefully watch the men for signs of theparticular infectious disease in question.So the first 2 or 3 days were busy but soonsettled down to the usual quiet time. Andafter it all just as their isolation periodwas up it was found that the case hadnot occurred in that company after all -enough said. I don't think that I told you inmy last letter that we had moved out a litttle further- I wish I were able to tell you these names butam not allowed, & now at last the date is fixedfor us to return to Romani for a spell & anotherlot to come out in our stead. Then we ought tobe able to obtain leave & we are already tryingto find out if the powers that be will allowus to go to Luxor. I had a letter from Wesleythis week - he has arrived in England& had four days leave which he spentin London & Birmingham with his relatives.He hopes to go & see Aunty Lily as soonas he has a little more leave. I alsohad a letter from Aunty Lily which had takenrather long time as she addressed it to the 3rd Regiment & she said she was sending aparcel also - the letter was readdressedfrom that Regt & came all right butI fear me for the fate of the parcel - theywould probably not be so anxious toreaddress it from that Regiment.Well well my dear I fear I am exhaustedin news & hand but I do hope you arewell - I often long to see you &think of you as you sat beneath thestore verandah saying goodbye &wish I could pop in and see youbut we must just wait patiently for alittle time longer & all will be well &we will appreciate it all the moreSo cheer up my dear there is a good timecoming with best of love to all& an extra hug for mother from, Her loving sonWilf