Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 22 September 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 22.9.1917My dear mother,There isn't very much news again, butI must send you along a few lines to show thatI am still thinking of you. By the way, thatparcel arrived safely from the Candelo comfortsSociety & Jack's also. Would you please convey mythanks to them, they were very acceptable. Iam using Florrie Collins piece of soap atpresent. I have not seen Jack for a fewdays as we have moved our position now &he is about 8 miles away so that itis rather inconvenient. In addition weare now in the front line & have a gooddeal of extra work to do, as there arereconnaissances frequently & then wehave to do a good deal of anti-mosquitowork. In the Wadi Guzzi there arenumbers of pools of water whichform a very suitable breeding groundfor Mosquitos & if the matter were nottaken well in hand we would have a large outbreak of malaria asthese mosquitoes are the malaria carryingvariety . So we have a constantparty at work, draining & oilingpools & grubbing out weeds toprevent their breeding.The weather is considerately cooler now night &at night grows quite chilly, so I amnot looking forward with any pleasureto night marches. We had an awful daywhen moving camp, as there was ahigh wind blowing & the dust wassimply awful & the work of pitchingtents a terrible task. My batman wasunfortunately away & I had a had time gettingmy bivouac fixed up. However we are allsquare again now & as comfortableas ever. The billycans are not yetto hand, in fact we have had nomail from Australia for some weeks- I think the reason is that thismail was the first one to go round by England. It is wretched isn't it as it willtake 6 to 8 weeks to get letters that way& there will be the risk of the boatsbeing sunk. However we must putup with it as best we can. I must goI'm endeavouring to think of some newsto tell you my dear, but I'm botheredif I can so I'm afraid I will haveto draw to a conclusion. I am well& in good spirits, still with a goodappetite so then is something to bethankful for.Jack bought a regular breeze fromAustralia with him, his head is stillfull of fat cows & sales & land - itis quite refreshing to hear some ofit, as here we have been away solong that we have almost forgottenthe existence of such things.Jack seems in good spirits & looks well - he takes more kindly to thelife than I anticipated but like mewants the war to end & that quicklyNo more news my dear, very bestof love & a hug fromYour loving sonWilf.