Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 20 August 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 20.8.17 My dear mother,Since last I wrote your two welcome letters arrivedafter being sent to various addresses here in search of me.I hope you have received my letters saying that Jack hadarrived safely before this. I fear that a fortnights mailwas lost at sea some few weeks ago so that you would bea month without letters. I have not heard from Jackthis week but expect to see him out here shortly.We have moved off the beach now & are in one of ourformer camp sites, not such a bad place though ratherdusty, but we miss the water very much. We only movedacross yesterday & I had a busy day riding over allthe Camps to see that they had been left in aclean & sanitary condition for the troops who werecoming in for their spell on the beach. I so arrangedmy day however that I arrived at the RestCamp which is at present being managed byportion of the 3rd Ambulance just in time to have a swim& then lunch, or rather we had some morning teaa swim & then lunch. Needless to say we enjoyedthat & afterwards had a smoke afternoon tea& rode after out here in the wake of our division.By that time things were settled down & our bivouacs erected, as I had sent on my batman.Today I have been riding round the Divisionto see how the people who formerly occupiedthis area left it (& it wasn't very good either)& then returned here after lunching at the 4th Ambulance.The day before we left the beach I rode down to seeWorthington who has a Veterinary Section at present onthe beach - he was once in the 9th Regt at same time as myself& afterwards lived at the Ambulance for a while. Murray Joneswho is A.D.V.S. here (Assistant Director of Veterinary Services)was going down & asked me to accompany him, so we hada pleasant ride & chat. Murray Jones is a very good fellowindeed & the only other Australian in the mess here, so thatwe fall into each other's company a good deal.I think I told you that the "baccy" arrived safelythanks very much, if you could get Vice Regal nexttime I would be very glad of it for a changebut please deduct the money from my cheque.I have not received the parcel yet from theCandelo association but expect it will bealong in a day or two. I suppose you are feelingquite a happy woman now having your only twosingle sons at the war - I'm sure you wouldn't behappy otherwise - but that is quite a sufficient number& we certainly don't want to see the married ones coming& if Ern talks any more about it, give him astraight talking to & tell him to stay & look after his wife & kiddies as he ought to do.In this war one meets people from all the ends of the earth,- while writing this letter I was interrupted by a youngsignalling officer who wanted some information, &in conversation afterwards he told me that he was fromCanada & began telling me lots of things about it, &yet he had a brother & other relations living in Mudgee.I heard the other day that young Bob Aspinall hadbeen killed in France - poor kiddy - he was at school& Varsity with me & graduated later, then came overhere & I saw him in Egypt before he went to France.We are nearing the end of summer now & I must saythat we have been very fortunate this year as thesummer was not nearly as hot as formerly & we wereso fortunate in being able to spend some time on thebeach. There doesn't seem much indication of the warending this year, my dear, does there? But cheer up, itwont last for ever & when it does finish it willprobably do so very rapidly & we will be togetheragain before we know it.No more news, my dear, I hope you arekeeping in good health & keeping indigestionright away, best of love to all & a doubleshare for mother fromHer loving sonWilf.I'm enclosing list of "mentioned in dispatches" with my name init. in case you have not seen it. All in order - dates following