Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 9 October 1915 Regiment: 3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 3rd L. H. F. AmbulanceAnzak9. 10. 1915My dear mother,I last wrote you fromthe S.S Siang Choon en route to Lemnos.& hope you received the letter safely. Wewere all surprised on arriving at LemnosIsland to see what a fine place itsprincipal & only harbour - Mudrosis. It has a narrow entrance & widensto about 2 miles in width & bendsalmost at right angles so that itis exceedingly well sheltered.As you may imagine it is atpresent a very busy place, butthere still remain on shore one ortwo native villages with housesclosely crowded together. The islandis I believe, about 20 miles longby 10 miles wide & is for the most part low lying but has a little high land in the centre. MajorMcLean who was in charge ofus had to report to headquartersbut we received no word ordersuntil the following day so wetook advantage of the opportunityto go ashore. The difficulty wasto procure a boat, but the 3rdship's officer obtained permissionfrom the captain to take us offin one of the boats which carrieda sail & away we went. It wasa glorious day, just like one ofour own fine spring or autumn dayswith a gentle breeze blowing.Unfortunately the breeze was in thewrong direction & we had totack a good deal before wefinally reached the desired point.I think I told you beforethat the 3rd Aust General Hospitalwas situated at Lemnos & we were bent on visiting there as weknow a good many of the men in it.We landed & after a little difficulty foundthe desired spot & had quite a pleasanttime renewing old acquaintances. Wemet several Prince Alfred nurses, & Hardiewho was at the varsity with us & a little furtheron met Kirkwood Murphy & some otherswhom we thought were at Gallipoli butwere in a stationary hospital. It wasvery strange to see Colonel SydneyJamieson & Sir Alexander McCormicktrotting about in military attire. Thelatter looked a little thinner than usualbut still very sturdy & robust & theformer was the picture of health &unbounded optimism. most of whichwas however very ill of us. We hadafternoon tea & after exploring theplace returned to our boat &thence to the ship but had torow back as the wind haddropped. Next day we received orders to embark forAnzac & did so. We spent thenext night in and the clearinghospital on the beach at Anzacas it is very difficult to find accommodationelsewhere just on arrival & one of theorderlies managed to procure us somebreakfast next morning, when I had myfirst taste of the famous bully beef &found it by no means bad. Wereported to Colonel Howse that morningas he is in charge of medical arrangementshere & five were sent to one division& six to the other. I formed one ofthe six & we reported to the headquarters of the New Zealand & AustralianDivision & was eventually draftedwith Parry & Wesley onto the 3rdLight Horse Field Ambulance.We were very fortunate to be able tokeep together. We are very comfortablysituated for active service. I havequite a decent little dug out to myself.The camp is situated on the slope of steep hill & a shelter is constructed bydigging out a space from it about8 feet long by five feet wide so as tohave the floor level & then there is aperpendicular wall at the back & twosloping walls at the sides as the diagramshows (very imperfectly) Then the side walls arebuilt up level by means ofsandbags & a roof of oilsheet put over itThe front also has sandbags except wherea space is left for the floor. We are very wellprotected from shells by the hills about &have a fine view of the sea with the hospitalships, trawlers & a warship or two on it.Can also see Suvla Bay & the Britishpositions there. Several ambulancescan easily be seen & I suppose thatthat cousin of ours in the 3rd WelshAmbulance is there somewhere but I fearthat I won't & have much chance of seeinghim. It is very interesting to watch the guns of opposing sides bombardingeach other We can see the flashesof some British batteries then thereis the report, the whiz of the shell& it lands somewhere on the ridgesinland. This generally continues for a littlewhile & some time later the Turkish batterieswill commence & we can watch theexplosion of their shells & guess how closethey land to the British guns, as we whe seethe smoke of the explosion & the groundtorn up Rifle fire occurs chiefly atnight with occasional spluttersfrom machine guns, & we hear thewhiz of the bullets as they passfar above us out to sea. Sometimesthere is quite an outburst when oneside fancies the other is going to makean attack. Then some of the warshipsmay chime in & they make a mostfrightful din particularly at nightwhen they fire most - I'm afraidthat your slumber would be as muchdisturbed by them as by the dogs at home We have little to do at present butare feeling well & contented, food isgood & we are treated very well. Itrained a little last night & I wasvery glad to note that my roofwas watertight In addition ofcourse I have my sleeping bag& also managed to bring acrossrubber boots & macintosh for wetweather & having quite a supply of warmthings. We can see from here a smallisland called Imbros about twentymiles away & thus much closer thanLemnos which is fifty miles away, & onthe former a canteen has been startedfrom which we will be able to purchasevarious little necessities which arebrought over by one of the men fromeach unit. I have to tell you ofgeneralities mainly & not of anymatter which might possibly be ofuse to the enemy so cut out a good deal of what I wouldotherwise mention. I hope, my dear,that you are not too distressedin mind about me for my chancesof injury are comparatively smallcompared with those of the men who holdthe trenches. We are very glad to xxxxxxxxxx I have taken some snapsof the camp here & also of Lemnoswill send them to Cairo to be developed& try & have them sent on. Myaddress here is3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance3rd Light Horse BrigadeAnzacI sincerely hope that all the familyare well & that you yourselfare in good fettle, with my bestlove to all & an extra share formother fromHer loving son,Wilf. (W Evans. Capt . A. A. M. C.)