Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 1 October 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 1.10.1917.My dear mother,No Australian mail yet& I suppose you find it exactly thesame in regard to mail from Egypt.Since I last wrote we made a smallreconnaissance, which I spent undermore favorable conditions than at anytime previously, as I went out & returnedin a motor Ambulance, & used the sameas a bedroom at night & office by day,so that altogether I had quite a goodtime. We had a primus stove aboardx So we had plenty of tea. Colonel Dixon,my chief & I went out in a carlooking at different places &succeeded in getting our carstuck in several places & being compelled to use our own powersto push the motor instead ofbeing pulled by it. However wegot back all right which wasthe main thing. I took a lamp& book out with me, so at night afterconversing for a while with some otherofficers turned in comfortably &went to sleep. Since the stunt,I had a rather heavy day goinground my "mosquito area" withthe chief insect man fromour General Headquarters, thatis the Headquarters of all the troopsout here. The man who cameround is a Major Austin whois the Entymologist at theBritish Museum & knows allthere is to be known about all manner of insects includingmosquitos & we went for milesup the wadi & at every poolhe stopped, fished out abouta dozen different scoopfullsof water in a kind of longporridge ladle & examinedeach for mosquito larvae.At the end I was rather tiredof it, & glad to come home totucker. However he showed mesome interesting worms & things inthe water & the day was notaltogether lost particularly ashe seemed rather please withthe work done. We are leaving foranother little "stunt" in a fewminutes & I am just scribblingoff a few lines before going, as although we expect to be backtonight we will be rather tiredtomorrow & probably busy.The weather is improving very muchnow, & the nights are quite cold,the days warm & bright, justa little too hot in the morning.We do get rain in these partsin the winter months - nonefalls in summer, so nowit is just one hour andwaste cut up to fine dustin most parts by the horses.In this month October the averagerainfall is 0.4 inches, but ^the nextfour months have an average ofabout four inches each, & itmust be a great deal morein the hills judging from the appearance of the deep wadisor gullies which intersect thecountry in all directions & whichprove such an obstacle to trafficat times. In a well ordered countryin peace time, you cannot realizethe difficulties of transport inwartime, in an almost roadlesscountry where the chief transport hasbeen by camels & donkeys. Motorcarshave a very bad time, as they frequentlystick fast in a sandy patch &require pushing out or may cometo a wadi with such steep sidesthat it is impossible to get down.Even ordinary wheeled traffichas great difficulty as thetracks become so heavy frombeing cut up by a large numbers of vehicles that four horses in ahuge wagon laden with supplieshave a tremendous task. Andthey also meet impassable wadis.Coming back from the 2nd battle atGaza we had only one crossingover the wadi for one particularbody of troops & you would besurprised to see how they accumulate,when guns & wagons & ambulancecarts & camels are all passingalong over the same road at thesame time. A London policemanwould be in his element insuch a spot.An airfight took place overheadyesterday but we could notsee the final result, thoughthe last we saw, was the picture of four of our machines chasinga German towards his ownterritory & machine gunsgoing furiously - I think theGerman had rather a hottime. I have not seen Jackfor some time, not since wecame to the front line, ashe is now some miles away& I have been busy.I have rambled on this timemy dear & must now closewith very best of lovefromYour loving sonWilf.I have just received word by wirelessof Maude's victory over the Turks again- good luck to him.