Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 28 July 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 28.7.1917My dear mother,Your very welcome letters of June 7th & May 31starrived safely yesterday after being directed to Cairo& then re-directed here. The parcel of tobacco arrivedat the Ambulance the day before I returned & wassent on to Cairo but I hope it will come backall right. Since last writing to you from CairoI received orders to return here as some block arosein my appointment in Cairo, due to outsideinfluences being brought to bear to keep ColonelDawson (the man whom I was to relieve)in Cairo. So I received a wire to report tothe headquarters of the Australian MountedDivision where I am at present attached& doing very little work. I had about 10days in Cairo altogether, stayed for a few daysat the Continental Hotel but as that grewtoo expensive I went to a boarding housefor a while where it was cheaper & quieter.Cairo was terribly hot, at night hardlya breath of air & I often woke up about3 or 4 a.m. in a cold sweat & remainedso the rest of the night. The work I was doing there was not very exacting - afew hours each day in the office constitutedthe whole of it, dealing with the variousmedical units about Cairo, shipping &so on. The chief trouble was lack ofexercise as it is so hot that it isvery difficult to get about &do muscular exercise of any kind. I went downto Ismailia one day on business, hadnot time to see Jack again thoughhe was not very far away.Since I went to Cairo the division herehas come on to the beach for a spell &it is really magnificent - we arecamped right on the sea beach soclose that one night it came intoour bivouac & washed us out & wehad hurriedly to move our wet thingsto another spot It is really glorioushere though, we have several swimsdaily & can sit in our bivouacs &watch the breakers only a fewyards away & enjoy the cool breezeblowing off them. I had a rather roughtrip up from Cairo, too, in an open truck againbut would you believe it, slept almost thewhole way, after spreading my blankets onthe floor & making myself as comfy as possible.While in Cairo nearly 300 nurses arrived fromAustralia & among them were many whohad been at the same hospitals as myselfin Sydney & they did seem pleased to seea known face in a strange land.So lately I have been running about quite alot & don't seem quite settled yet as I amunattached so far & just gaining experienceon divisional headquarters. However it's avery easy life & I think I am doing lesswork than I have ever done for a long time& that is saying a lot for the militarylife as we are generally not overworked.No more news this time my dear,expect I will see Jack again beforevery long - he looks well & so do Iso cheer up my dear with best of lovefromYour loving sonWilf.