Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 24 July 1915 Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 5th & 6th Training BattalionsZeitoun,Cairo,July 24th, 1915.My dear mother,You will observe achange of address above but pleaseaddress all letters as before to the 1stAust. General Hospital, HeliopolisCairo. I think I told you in my lastletter of our trip at the Red Sea. Wearrived at Suez on the 17th & disembarkedon the 18th July & on that day I had anopportunity of going through Suez. Threetrains were detailed to take the troops toCairo & I was to go in the 2nd whichleft at 12.30 daytime. We obtainedpermission from our O.C. to go ashorebut on doing so found our Colonelblocked by a picket on shore whorefused to let him pass, as instructionshad been given by the shore commandantthat no one was to be allowed ashore. Hethen rang up the shore commandant &obtained permission for four men to goashore to escort the nurses so we managed to pass through & five of us took alongthree nurses in two garries (You willremember those broken down vehicles withtwo skinny neddies in them). After goinga small distance we encountered aboutten or fifteen more nurses & had to providesome more garries & proceeded merrilyon our way. We drove along by the canal& on to the township & through it's narrowEastern streets, which rather made me thinkthat I was dreaming or looking atpicture post cards. They are so narrow& twisted with houses three or four storieshigh on each side, apparently builtfrom laths & cement with no verandahsof any kind & containing apparently hundredsof people judging by the numbers of peopleat the windows. We stopped at a mosque& some of the party went in after coveringtheir feet with slippers The remainder soonhad a large party of curious nativesaround them admiring & inspecting theirpersonal appearance. We drove along tothe gardens which derive their watersupply from a small channel of freshwater which comes from the Nile about100 miles away & supplies water to Suez We drove back after partaking of sometea & bread just in time to catch ourtrain. Only a few of the nurses & two medicos(Kirkwood & I) went by that train witha large body of troops. We started outover the hot burning desert & as we leftthe sea it gradually became hotter & hotter aswe became surrounded by the sands. Weremained in sight of the canal for somelittle considerable distance, as far as x Ishmalia[*x Ishmalia Yes that is correct*](I think it was,) which is beyond the spot wherethe canal widens out into the Bitter lakes. Wefollowed the course of the canal whichsupplies Suez & spots of green were found alongit among the desert, & as we proceeded thisgreen became a continuous narrow strip alongthe small canal & finally stretched out asfar as the eye could see & no desertwas visible but in it's place beautifulverdure everywhere. I have never seensuch closely cultivated & settled countryin my life as this irrigated & rich land.The canal, at first only small grewin width & where at first we sawonly small boats towed by a ropefrom the shore we finally saw sailingboats or dhows of quite fair size. The change from desert to cultivation was themost interesting I have ever seen & alldepending entirely upon the Nile whichpractically spills Egypt as the rainfallis only about one inch per year. Theirrigation system is marvellous,from the larger canals smaller canalsrun off at right angles & from thesesmaller channels in the various bedswhich can practically be submerged.This is in the poorer parts nearer Suez.Farther up in the large areas it bringsback Biblical matters very vividly. They havea kind of buffalo used as oxen & theseare seen all along the canal going round ina circle, & turning a pump, which propelswater into channels which flow to the beds.Others have the old Archimedes wheel turnedby hand - it is a hollow wooden cylinderso arranged that by turning it, thewater enters by the lower end which isplaced in the stream & flows out at thetop end, a few feet higher up, & then intothe trench. They have no horses, but goatsmules donkeys cows & a hybrid kind ofbuffalo. The land is very closely cultivated& very few roads of any pretentions exist, but mainly bridle tracks used by a singleanimal. No vehicles were seen by me, everythingapparently carried on the backs of donkeysmules or camels. They have two big bagson each side of the animal which canbe filled with any material, soil vegetablesEtc. The houses are weird, built entirelyof mud, as there is very little wood obtainablein many cases a whole village is crowdedtogether practically under one roof, with manydivisions & each has it's mosque. They growmaize, & watermelons, & large numbers of lowshrubby looking things, I think cottonThese formed the largest part of the cultivationbut I could form no accurate idea ofwhat the crops were. We arrived at Cairoabout six o'clock in the evening. & cameout to Heliopolis which is about fourmiles distant immediately & on to the hotelWe are a An electric railway connects Cairowith Heliopolis & takes only a very few minutesto run - about 20 minutes is the usual time,much faster than our Sydney trams, butthere are few stops. A tram also runshere but I have not travelled on it.The electric railway carries one carriagejust like a tram but has 1st & 2nd class. 1st class costs 2 piastres each way(1 piastre =2d), half price to the military.They are inscribed in French as everythinghere bears the mark of the French who seemedto have been the dominating race. There area great mixture of peoples black & whitefrom all quarters of the globe. We hadnothing to do for two or three days & wentto Cairo a couple of times & did a littleshopping but so far have not seenmuch of the city, will describe it later Ihope. Last Wednesday (it is now Sunday) Isuddenly received orders to come out here& report for duty, to take care of the 5th& 6th training battalions about 1500 men.I am kept going fairly constantly & amvery pleased as I was growing tired ofinactivity. I have to look after thesanitation of the camp & the health ofthe men. Generally 150 men havepresented themselves at sick paradein the morning, & it takes me the wholemorning to do them & go round thecamp & odd jobs in the afternoon.I have a tent to myself, an orderlywho was picked out for me by a friendin who is a lieutenant & knew somegood men, & I also have a horse, & went for a ride yesterday afternoonI am only here temporarily & was told thatI can go back to the hospital whenI tire of this. We are in the desert heresome 2 miles from the hospital atHeliopolis, but I really believe it iscooler here. There are a lot of Ceylonplanters here as officers who have Englishfashions & speech highly developed.Am very tired so must close for thismail with best love to allfromYour loving son,Wilf. P.S. I am very well, eating wellsleeping well & the heat is notvery exacting, not very muchhotter than Sydney.