Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 27 December 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 27.12.1916My dear mother,I am commencing a letter tonight thoughI have no possible chance of finishing it, as I have quitea lot to tell you about this time. You have doubtless readin the papers of our doings during the last few days, weourselves knew for some time before that something wasgoing to happen but could give you no hint. However wemoved out at much shorter notice than we expected -about five days before Xmas, & then we moved forwardtowards El Arish. We travelled all day, rested for two orthree hours in the evening & then moved forward allnight. The night march was a wretched one as wehalted for a couple of hours at midnight & nearly frozefor these winter Egyptian nights are very chilly. Wewere all very glad when day broke & we advanced onthe Turkish position. We knew however that they hadevacuated it a day or two previously & then as expectedoccupied it without any opposition. The town is situatednear the sea & we marched along the beach for twoor three miles & it was glorious to be so close to itagain though we were rather too tired to enjoy it.I don't think that I have mentioned previouslythat the coast west of here is peculiar in that a large lagoon called the Sabkhat el Bardawillies between the sea & the land & is separated fromthe sea by a narrow strip of sand. It's entranceis narrow & in peace time is kept open by a dredge& good fishing is obtained in the lagoon by theBedouins. During the war the entrance hasclosed up & the lagoon xx is now partially dry& partially swampy & so cuts off all communicationwith the sea. It extends for 30 or 40 milesalong the coast & it was along it that we havebeen progressing since August. I mentioned toyou at different times that we were fartherout but could never definitely tell you where wewere. Well this lagoon ends before you cometo El Arish & here the sea front is open &ships can come in which is as you mayrealize very important in many ways forarmies. The Turks had evidently intendedto defend it, as they had many splendidtrenches dug along the sea front & had laidmany mines in the sea, which were soonfished out by mine sweepers without anytrouble as soon as we occupied the place.The town itself is a collection of mud huts of quite a fair size 200-300 in all & it has amosque with quite a decent minaret & a fortbut on the whole is a very wretched place. Thereare a few wretched fig trees scattered about itbut the rest is the same old sand of which wehave become so tired. There are however somesmall patches of cultivation in a "wady" orgully which runs down to the sea east ofthe town & bears it's name. This wady runssouth right away to Magdhaba of whichyou have probably heard & of which I shallhave quite a lot to tell you presently. Thebottom of the wady is quite firm & hard incontrast to the surrounding sand & it's widthis often as much as a mile. Sometimes - butrarely it is flooded. We spent one nightnear the place El Arish but had to rise very early & hadnot very many hours rest. The next evening weset off again to our great surprise & againmarched all night down the wady towardsMagdhaba, & had a very wretched time as we waitedfor about for six or seven weary hours during the night& were chilled to the bone. Next morning we sightedMagdhaba & moved forward to attack it. The ideawas to surround it & bag all the Turks thereso the different Brigades were allotted their positions & moved towards them. Our artillerythen opened fire & the Turks replied with a mountainbattery they had in the place. I understand thatthey had two battalions & a half of Infantryabout 4 machine guns & 4 mountain guns& they were strongly entrenched. They had asplendid water supply from a huge deepwell from which the water was pumped up into atremendous concrete reservoir & from this they drew theirsupplies. They also had a hospital which washoused in three good brick buildings well furnishedwith drugs & some medical officers in charge.To continue with the fight - as our Brigade movedforward into action we followed them to pickup wounded & had a splendid view of everything.The country was flat on the whole but there werea few sand ridges about two miles from the Turkishposition behind which xx our troops were able to takecover as they advanced, but when they approachednearer the country became practically flat & offeredalmost no cover at all. Our Brigade movedforward gradually from ridge to ridge, it's leftwing good slowly enveloping the Turkishposition & finally joining up with the troopson the other side so that they the Turks were completely surrounded. A few managed to bolt away before it was completedbut the great majority were caught. The generalthen held a parley & asked them to surrender butthey replied that would fight to the end.Then followed some of the most magnificent fightingone could ever see & I should say almost uniquein this war as the whole of the fight could beseen from where we were & there was a combinationof charges on horseback & foot.We set up our dressing station on the last of the ridges beforethe cou & waited for word of any wounded but surprisinglyfew men were hit in the morning or early afternoon.The general advance commenced about two o'clock & wesaw our boys dismounted with fixed bayonetsadvancing over the flat country in skirmishingorder & in this way they worked up to within about a mile of the Turks. The Turkish position wasnow obscured by the bursting of our shells & thesand everywhere was sent up in puffs by riflebullets. Soon after this we saw a squadronof our men, mounted, charging with fixedbayonets at the gallop right to within about200 yards of the Turkish position wherethey dismounted in the shelter of a smallhollow. I watched to see if any droppedbut not one fell in spite of the heavy rifle fire directed at them. Then to their rightthere was a veritable inferno, our men wererushing forward on foot & it looked as ifhardly a man could live so thick were thepatches of sand knocked up by bullets. Therewas to be heard the continuous rattle ofrifle & machine gun fire interrupted by theboom of the guns & the screeching of theshells. On the left our people also hadworked right forward & this was almostthe last I saw of the battle as I receivedword of wounded round on the left & tooka couple of sandcarts to collect themWe were engaged picking up a woundedTurk & some of our own men & putting them onsledges & sandcarts when suddenly thefiring ceased & on looking round we sawthe Turks had surrendered. One of ourregiments had galloped with fixedbayonets not only at but over the trenches& stopped twenty yards behind them & the other regiments charged on foot & when they werewithin a few yards of the trenches the Turkssurrendered. The mounted charge was headedby our own Brigadier General Royston who is amagnificent soldier & knows no fear. It waslargely due to his efforts that the day was sosuccessful. At one stage of the fight he gatheredup all the grooms holding led horses for officers& men leading packhorses & made them followhim at the gallop towards the Turks so thatthey would think more troop were coming &machine guns on pack horses. Of coursehe did not go right on. The Turks whosurrendered numbered 1300 & their four mountainguns were taken, some machine guns, theirBrigadier General, & their hospital with its equipment& doctors. After the firing ceased I had a terriblybusy time. Hearing that there was a Turkishhospital in the place I took my sandcartswith their freight of wounded down there& sent the carts immediately away for more asit was growing dark & it is so difficultto find people in the dark & if the poor beggars fellowswere left out all night it would be terribly severefor them. Our orders were to take them backto a clearing station a few miles away but if we had done so we would never have collectedthem all. Only the Colonel & myself wereout with the Ambulance, the others hadstayed behind to fix up a place to receivethe wounded further back. The Colonel thenwent off to get rations & other necessariesfrom the people at the hospital further back& I was left to cope with everything. More &more wounded Turks & Australians were reported& I sent cart after cart out to get them.The buildings only had a few mattresses on the floor& a few quilts for coverings & I had not verymany sandcarts blankets. However wemanaged to cover them all somehow &by eleven o'clock at night we had about100 wounded belonging to ourselves & Turks combinedI went round taking each one's name, givingeach one Morphia & looking to each wound.Most of the wounds had been splendidlydressed on the field. At first we had troubleabout lights but we fished up twolanterns & some kerosene. We borrowedextra dressings from the Turkish people& also made the Two Turkish doctors & their two assistants dress their own wounded& we all worked away together. I had aterrible time of it, as I was constantly interruptedin my work as I went round to see about sendingaway a sandcart or some wounded man wouldwant Morphia water & I had to send one of the four menwhom I had kept back from collecting woundedaway to a well 300 yards away to bring it upin a bucket we took from the Turks, then one or twodied & I had to arrange the padr to burythem & so on interminably. One or two peoplehaemorrhaged rather freely & I had to stopthese so that I did not know where to looknext. However I got round them in the end& everyone had Morphia & a drink & hiswound looked at & by twelve o'clock allwere quiet & most asleep. At about12.30 the Colonel returned with rations & hehad arranged for medical comforts tofollow as we had nothing to give them nextmorning. About 3 a.m. Major Hercus who isD.A.D.M.S. of the Division (xxxxxxx that isDeputy Assistant Director of Medical Services) camealong with a convoy of more dressings, beef teaarrowroot & all sorts of things. by some who had been left behind. (I censoredthat myself). Next morning we for looked roundabout 5 a.m. found some potatoes & onions theTurks had left & some tinned meat & withthese made a stew. We also found two bigtureens to boil water in & our improvisedcook turned out some excellent stew,tea, beef tea & arrowroot for the woundedso they all had a good hot drink &a meal if they could take it. Duringthe morning we sent out & collected afew more wounded Turks from differentparts - none of our own had been left out& then I arranged the cases for transportback to El Arish. The more serious went onsandcarts & sledges & the slighter caseson the sitting or lying down cacolets on camels& our precious convoy of about 100 woundedof both sides finally set off about 1.30in the afternoon. We had four wounded Turkishofficers & two Turkish doctors & then twoassistants on board also. Five miles furtheralong the road we came to the xxxxxclearing station where another drink &biscuits were given to all the wounded & we set off again at four o'clock for home I wentoff in charge of the sandcarts which arefaster than the camels but had to stop severaltimes, once to stop haemorrhage & on otheroccasions to give Morphia to some who werein pain. We finally arrived at our base atnearly midnight & I was glad to handover my charge to the doctors there & goto bed as I had been up three nights outof four & had been working for the last twodays at very high pressure. - How sweetis leisure now, it is two or three days since I returned& we are fixing ourselves up comfortably in apalm grove. The first day or two after myreturn I was kept busy, as I gave a handlooking after the wounded & then we had tochange camp & only today am I having agood spell. The last two or three nights have been cold& wet & we to were unable to fix up shelter untillast evening but my sleeping bag provedinvaluable & kept me quite warm & dry.I am looking back now with satisfaction over thislast week, to as I have never before since I joinedthe army felt as useful & I think if I hadnot done anything at all previously thatnight would have made up for all. So,my dear, it may be hard for you to have me away so long from you, but if one has theopportunity of doing work like that & relievingthe suffering of these fine if men of ours whohave been shattered in their country's serviceI think neither you nor I should be dissatisfiedno matter what happens. I'm sure youcould not wish me to be doing anything else &it should be a partial recompense to you forall you have done for me to know thatI can be of service out here.We arrived back on Xmas Eve, had a busyXmas day, dined from bully beef & biscuitsno time to cook the turkeys which we stillpossess & we can only draw ordinary rationsso far out. So our Xmas was not such asuccess in the matter of feasting but ourvictory was better than I eating. So I willclose with much love to all & a doubleshare to mother fromYour loving sonWilf.I am trying to get a cable away but no mailseems to be leaving here at present. Will send it assoon as possible.