Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 7 June 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 7. 6. 1916P.SA mailjust to handTwo letters fromyou about Tathra.My dear mother,I am rather late this week in writing asI have been to Cairo again for a trip & had my time so fullyoccupied that I could not write while there. Wesley & I aftera great deal of conspiracy succeeded in obtaining leave together.We worked all the points we knew & eventually managed it afterspending a whole afternoon interviewing people. We left early onemorning & after riding in to a certain spot went on a hospital boatto Ismailia where we had lunch at the hospital. Wesley's lady lovewas there (not at lunch but at the hospital) & he decided to spendthe afternoon with her & come up by the evening train, but Ithinking that there would be little amusement there for me wentto Cairo by a train soon after lunch arriving in time fordinner at night. Four nurses were on the train from thehospital setting out for transport work & of course it fellto my lot to look after them which did not provealtogether an uncongenial occupation, Egyptian trainshave dining cars aboard & cool drinks can be obtainedat any time & prove very acceptable during the hot weather.I also met a fellow named Waine who went throughthe Varsity with me & has been in England ever since &enlisted last year in the R.A.M.C. since when hehas been to France & Mesopotamia & wasreturning from the latter place after spending five months there.On alighting from the train in Cairo I met anotherfellow - Stafford also from our Varsity year, & whorecently married the best looking girl in that yearcommonly called the dream. After seeing the ladiesto their conveyance with their stacks of luggageI was free to go to the Continental where Iarranged rooms for Wesley & myself & proceededto dine at the usual Cairo hour of 7.45 pm.Afterwards I went round to the Davies Bryans& spent the evening there. They were cordial & kindas usual & are still in a quandary as regardsgoing to England. Wesley arrived at the hotel aboutmidnight after I had gone to bed & we indulgedin two lemon squashes though I hardly realizedI was having mine as I had been asleep. Weslept in next day had a late breakfast withanother fellow we knew who came over in theboat with us from Australia & then sallied forthto Choubra Hospital where there were a coupleof Prince Alfred girls. We had morning tea therewith Sister Burkitt who is engaged to anothermedico named Gibson also one of our friends atpresent in France. We also saw Sister Cloustonthere daughter of the late minister of GlebeChurch. They were all very jolly & seemed glad to see us. After a very fine lunch at theContinental we snoozed & smoked for an hour & thenwent out to the 27th British Hospital to see HaroldThomas whom I have mentioned before as beingfrom Manly. We had a squash there as it wasan exceedingly hot day & took Harold away withus in the garry we had hired to an AustralianHospital not far distant to see Jim Wiley alsofrom our year. We had intended taking the twoof them to dinner at the Continental but theyprevailed on us to stay to dinner at the hospitalwhere there were several more people we knew, towit - Major Gregor who has a practice in Sydney &"Whisky" Dawson for once of Prince Alfred anawfully good chap despite his nickname. Therewere several more officers present including a padr& we had an extremely pleasant evening discussingold Prince Alfred days. Next day Charley's girl cameup from Ismailia by the eleven train so after doingsome shopping I went out to Heliopolis to see cousinJohn Evans who by the way is now a Colonel & is atpresent stationed in Cairo. I f had learnt hiswhereabouts from the Bryans & found theAmbulance easily enough but much to mydisgust I found that he was out. Howeverthey said that he would probably lunch at the Continental but I failed to find him there either.Wesley the lady & myself had lunch together& then I went along to the Mooski (bazaar)to look at some brasswork while the otherpair betook themselves on the Nile for a blow.I gave them a wide berth as I think theyare getting rather fond of each other & I thoughtthey might want to fix matters up definitelybut apparently after talking it over theydecided that a definite engagement in wartime would be unwise as it undoubtedly would.I had a good look at the brass ware & decidedto wait till next day to see what money Ihad left after paying hotel bills. The ladywent back by the six p.m. train & Wesley &I met Harold Thomas by appointment & wentout to dinner with him at the Ghezirah Sportingclub. The dinner is served there in the openunder the trees, all the tables being small &each bearing an electric light softened bya Japanese shade the effect combinedwith the white table cloths, shining silver,table flowers onkf & surrounding trees beingvery pretty. The dinner was a splendid onealso as it is one of the best clubs inCairo & we did full justice to it finishing it up with a spiffing Henry Clay cigar Wethen sat out & talked for a while & suddenlyrecollected that we had arranged to meet thedentist from our Ambulance who was in Cairo &alone & go with him to the Kursaal - the localvariety show. So we bustled away & found himin is room half naked trying to get cool &we decided to forego the theatre & take adrive through the gardens in the cool instead,which proved much more enjoyeable & weended the evening at the Continental with aniced drink. On the next & last morning we wentout to the 3rd Australian General Hospital & sawsome fellows who were sick there, then CliveBlackwell (you remember the friends of Job) whois a Sergeant in the dental corps & ended upby visiting some more Prince Alfred nurses in thenurses' home. We returned to the Continental forlunch & were joined by Jim Wiley to diser whohad arranged to meet us at lunch & in theafternoon after settling our bills went to theMooski. Wesley bought some things & thenI after a lot of looking fell in love with acouple of exquisite vases & couldn't passthem as I thought they would just suityou & a tray for Mab. The only trouble was the cash but I was so enamoured withthem that I borrowed 2.10 from Jim Wileyto supplement my available money & boughtthem I directed them to be packed & senton to you but wish I had had the time totake them to Cooks as they might easily substitutepoorer vases or tray or not send them at all. Pleaselet me know as soon as the arrive. The vasesare large somewhat shaped thus & ofvery fine workmanship ofthe same variety as the single one I sentpreviously only better. If the work in thoseyou receive is only scratched in work & notinlaid as the previous one was please tellme as I have the man's address. Tho Wehad to rush away get tea & trainhomewards - I hadnt a bean left,though the holiday was by no means expensive,The brassware cost more than the other X's - Ido hope you receive it safely & like itArrived home 2 a.m very tired after oneof the most excellent holidays I have hadA very full 3 or 4 days trip. Now in the desertagain killing time. Much love to allfromYour loving son,Wilf.