Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 14 August 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: France Nationality: Australian Text: 14. 8. 1918. My dear mother,I was indeed grieved to hear that you hadagain received no letters from you me. In your letter of June15th you seemed so despondent about it, I felt quite sad& would have cabled but am sure you must have received myletters since that time as it is nearly two months ago & some ofmy letters which should have reached you then were addressedto Harry & some to the boarding house at North Sydney &some to your new home, but first of all to Greja beforeyou changed the name. x I can quite understandthat you may miss some of those too if a different nameis over the door now, but I am sure you will havereceived some of them. I'm awfully disappointed thatthey are wandering over the country & wonder if it wouldbe worth inquiring at the P.O. I suppose Candelowould forward them to you would they not?But not the place at Vaucleuse?Well, my dear, I think I have some good news foryou. I mentioned to Col. Fowler who is takingCol Dixon's place that you were not well &wanted me at home & yesterday he was at aconference at Corps H.Q. & mentioned the matterto Col Downes who as you know is the chief ofthe A.M.C. here & practically governs the movements of medical officers. He said that myname was already down as 7th on the list to go homewithout having applied for it & some of the otherswho were before me on the list (having been over a littlelonger) were not very desirous of going home. So Col.Fowler thinks that if I apply & pitch a fairly goodtale that I should be able to manage it, & I thinkthe fact that you are getting old & are not strong &wish to see me after so long a period will bequite sufficient. So my dear, you can pickyourself up with the thought that you may seeme quite soon. I will write out my applicationtomorrow & though I may possibly not get homeon the first boat that leaves I should havethe best of chances of leaving at any rate beforeXmas. And my word, wouldn't I like to bewith you for Christmas. So, please, my dear, don'toverwork, try & get yourself real well for meto come home to, if the house is a bit dustywhat matters it? & if someone does dirty thesteps well let it rest just to please me &keep yourself fit.Since I last wrote, nothing very much has happenedhere, we have just gone on in much the usual waydoing our usual routine of anti mosquito worksanitation & so on. Col Fowler was away fora couple of days at Jerusalem & I carriedon in his absence & so kept myself fairly busy. This morning I had a fairly long trip outto some of our far mosquito areas went partly bymotorcar & partly by horse. It was fairy hot downat the Jordan but cooled down a little when a few cloudscame up. Just the last day or two we havenoticed a few clouds for the first time during the wholeLater next morning before breakfast.summer. The parcel you sent me arrived safely yesterday& I have just been having some of the biscuits. Our boysbring us in cup of tea in the morning & biscuits help itdown quite a lot. Very many thanks my dear for yourthoughtfulness but I really wish you wouldn't spendmoney on me. I noticed in the papers a few dayago that Charlie Wesley had been wounded inFrance & sincerely hope it isn't serious. Since I sawhis name on the Casualty list, I have received a letterfrom him, but it must have been previous to his woundas he says nothing of it. I have written & asked him tosend me all particulars. Sorry I can't raise anymore news this time, my dear, but possibly the bitI gave you at the beginning of the letter may beworth much. Hoping you are better & taking everypossible care of yourself, with lots of love & hugsfromYour loving sonWilf. Wilfreds August 14. 1918