Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 28 November 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 28. 11. 1916My dear mother,I am afraid, that it is more than a weeksince I last wrote you as we have changed our diggingssince then & have consequently been upset in our arrangements.The powers that be evidently considered that we had hadsufficient rest & sent us off again last Thursdaymorning. I cannot tell you the exact stages of the journeyor the mileage we travelled but think I may safely saythat we went over the same ground we formerly held& pushed on to where our front line now is. You rememberthat long expedition we made some two months ago whenwe had a brush with the Turks & they evacuated theplace afterwards - well we are now camped there &so are considerably farther away from the dear oldcanal than we formerly were. We did the trip in easystages, being four days on the trek & each nightcamped out under the stars & such stars they arein these tropical skies. The milky way which inAustralia is comparatively faint here forms quite adefinite broad white band across the sky & the otherstars are very bright & this brightness is enhanced bythe cloudless blue of the sky. The good old starof the East which guided the wise men of oldrises night after night & often serves us asa beacon also. But to continue the trek, thedays were beautifully fine & moderately cool, &the nights cold & the dew very heavy. Our sleepingvalises were carried on the camels & they are certainlyexcellent on such trips, as when one is well burrowedinto a valise with a mattress underneath him & thewaterproof of the valise below that, then a couple ofblankets above & the waterproof of the valise on top ofthat, one is as comfy as possible. There is a headprotection also so that one is quite protectedfrom the dew which is sufficiently heavy to wetthrough blankets. We brought good tucker along &managed to feed very well so that the trip wasrather enjoyeable. Of course the travelling was slowas when troops travel together there are alwaysfrequent delays & that pace must be accommodatedto the slowest unit. The scenery as you mayimagine was not very impressive or varied asit was desert all the way, but toward thelatter end it became more uneven & we gotinto those beastly sand dunes I have previouslymentioned. We have managed to rig up somekind of shelter for ourselves in the shape of humpiesmade from waterproof sheets tied together &supported on bamboo poles & of course we havea few small tents for patients. There are nopalm trees here worse luck & we rathermiss them. I received a packet of Bulletinsfrom Mab this morning very much delayedon the trip I think & before we left -I received some "Sydney Mails" from Em &a "Life" from you (not the first one is it my dear?)It is rather dull out here as you may imagine,just dumped down on the desert with very little to dobut we manage to occupy our time in reading &paying little visits. I am looking forward to thebilly which should be here soon & will be aboon just now. Did I tell to you that when inCairo I drew all the back pay I had due tome as I have not spent all the 10/- per dayI draw over here, because when we are in thedesert it does not cost us very much to live& put it in the Anglo Egyptian bank in CairoI could not get the cheque until I was justleaving & so was short of money at theend of my stay having only a small amountof ready cash when I had purchased clothesEtc. However it is in the bank now & amountsto about 70 & I think if possible I willsend along a draft of 50 to you to putwith the rest leaving 20 in Cairo as it ishandy to have some there to be able to drawat a moments notice, as I have frequentlybeen unable to get it from the pay office whenI wanted it in Cairo. The trouble is I willnot be in Cairo for some time in order toget the necessary form but will leave itthere for the present. Poor old Roumaniaseems to be having a bad time at present, botherit all - I wish the jolly war would finish &let us get home. I had some letters from youbefore we left Romani - expect another mailsoon - they always bring you very close to us, soclose that I almost seem to be in Candelo withyou again as I hope to be before - well Idon't quite know but hope not very long.I hope your health is good my dear &you have enjoyed Em & Alice's visitWill write again shortly all being wellVery best love to all with a good oldhug for mother fromHer loving sonWilf.