Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 3 December 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 3. 12. 1916.My dear mother,It is only a few days since I last wrotebut it is Sunday evening & just in order to get backto the regular day again I must send you a few lines.The billy arrived on the day after I last wrote & the cakewas a beauty, we have all appreciated it - havebeen using it for afternoon tea. I hardly liked breakinginto it at all as it reminded me so much of youbut the smell & general appearance soon made havocwith sentiment & it did not remain very long unbroken.The Lucy Hinton also is splendid, just what Iwanted & will keep me in smokes for quite a time- don't worry about me smoking too much mothermine, I don't do that but find a pipe greatconsolation in the wilderness. I took the billy outon an expedition the very day after it arrived - Istill possess the other but this was a little smaller& only two of us went out & it was a better size forthe smaller number. Another mail has arrivedsince then with a letter from you written after yourreturn from Bega - not fancy Dr Sharp indulgingin a fourth kiddy, good luck to him, wewant them all now. Which Miss Ritchie was the ityou mentioned - the one who used to visit Mrs Sharp at Candelo or a younger one who was at schoolat that time? Very kind of her to rememberme at any rate. The expedition we went to acouple of days ago was to some hills somedistance from here where it was thought theTurks might be & a small party from theBrigade went out to reconnoitre The Colonel& I went from here & took a few bearers &a couple of slegd sledges for wounded asthe country was too rough even for our sandcartsThe first few miles were dreadful - steep sandridgesone following the other with very soft sandeverywhere but it improved as we went along &became quite firm as we approached somehills. We took up our position on top of oneof these - more than 1000 feet high & thescouts went on further. We had amagnificent view from there of the whole ofthe country round here with the sea in thedistance & on the other side high rangesof hills projecting sheer out of the desertMost of these are of solid rock & veryprecipitous in nature & reaching to a heightof over 2000 feet & as you may imagine offer fairly good protection for the lurkingBedouin or Turk. Our scouts in their explorationwere fired on by some men in the distance & returnedit with interest but no one was hit. We couldsee with the aid of glasses some dark figuresclambering over one of the passes in thedistant hills presumably Turks alarmed atthe approach of our men. We left here at8.a.m. in the morning & had a good lunch onthe top of the hill after boiling the billy or ratherhaving it boiled for us & returned in the duskThe colonel went on further with some others justto view the country & I was left in charge of thesledges. The camp here is rather hard to find & thereare absolutely no landmarks so the task is noeasy one even with a compass in the dark, especiallyas detours must be made in the sand dunes. Iadopted the expedient of following the tracks madeby the sledges & had no difficulty at all though we werea couple of hours in the darkness. The colonel whowas not along the same track missed the campby a few hundred yards & did not get in forsome time afterwards. We are fairly comfortablyinstalled here now but never know when we willmove, that depending on the attitude of Abdul theTurk & on our own headquarters staff. I amgetting abominably fat again during the winter as we don't take much exercise - walkingin heavy sand being a very uninterestingoccupation. I had a letter from Harry & Lindathis week, must reply to it shortly. We hadchurch parade this morning - can't say Ienjoyed it much - we have a new youngChurch of England clergyman from Irelandwho was made a prisoner by the rebelsfor a week during the riots in Dublin. Butthe singing is very poor in the open air, the menare marched up & don't put much viminto things as they usually don't want to goso the service is a rather luke warm affairall through. No more news this time somust close with very best of love fromYour loving sonWilf.