Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 12 November 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 12.11.1916 My dear mother,Your two most welcome letters ofSept 21st & 28th arrived safely this week, ratherlater than the rest of the mail as our New SouthWales letters are often a day or two behind the Victorianones. Your letters have arrived very regularly now forsome time past & I am sorry that you were ratherworrying about them going astray as that occurredonly several months ago, & then they turned up in theend. You were asking how long I was going to stayhere, my dear, well really it is very hard to answer, asone is very much under the Control of the Militaryauthorities & it very largely rests with them, otherwiseI don't think I would be here very long, althoughI suppose one would hardly care to turn his backon things at the present stage. I long just as muchas you to return & see you again but we mustjust be patient & I think we should also bethankful when we look round & see so manyhomes mourning for those who have gone. Oneof my great troubles is the thought of wastingthese years here when there is so much to bedone & one's youth is the time to work & gain experience whereas in the military business in thefield we chiefly occupy ourselves in "killing time"day following day in monotonous succession.However some day in the future if the war does notend soon I may have the chance of a basejob (it isn't very likely though I fear) & then wemight arrange to meet. However let us hopethat the war is not going to stretch outmuch farther, the summer has passed veryfavorably for us though Roumania has hada bad time & next summer should surelysee the end. As regards going to FranceI don't think it's at all probable thatwe will be sent there, my dear, & if we are- well "Kismet" we have to go. But oursphere of activity lies fairly definitelyhere my dear so don't worry. I wasawfully sorry that you bothered to makeanother cake just because one wasslightly scorched - we aren't a bitparticular out here. I have just beeneating a piece of a beauty which was sent from England to Cave one of the officers here &we have had part of it for afternoon teaWe are living quite well, have our own cookwho was once a chef in one of the best places inMelbourne & also have an orderly to wait onus. Our mess is in a large E.P. tent (I don'tsuppose you know what kind they are, but theyare about 6 yards wide by 12 yds in length & havea kind of gable roof. We have a table & stools& a partition behind which the serving is done.We also have some kind of wild desertblossom on the table so are quite swanky.Several others of my friends have been killedin France besides Graham - W Jekyll &Broughton were two fine fellows both in myyear at the Varsity & then several others in the yearsabove & below. Your description of dusting photosmade me quite sad, my dear, to think of youin the same old spot longing to see me -what a pity we couldn't pay each otherwireless visits across the sea - cheer upit won't be so very long now. Several ofour officers have been away on leave thisweek so we have had a little more to dothan usual & one or two of the regimental medical officers are also away ill, one frommy old regiment has a bad ear, & anotherbad eyes & teeth. We expect them backagain before long however & will be gladas it is rather a bother going over to theregiments to fix up their work & if wemove out again one of us would haveto go along with the regiment, though whilewe are close together here its not necessary.Football is in full swing at present,matches have been arranged between thedifferent regiments & it is quite pleasantto go & look at the matches althoughthey play a different game to our usualone in N.S. Wales. They develop quite akeen interest in the game too & practicefor it so it helps them to enjoy theirspell here. Then there is a Y.M.C.A. tenthere where there are frequently entertainmentsat night & it is they also who havearranged the matches so they do quite a good work. I suppose this letter willreach you just between Xmas & NewYear. I hope you will have had apleasant time at Eden or some othergood spot & that the New Year will bean auspicious one for us all. I hopeyou received the last letter safely withall the photos in it as you would findthem interesting. Can't think of anymore news my dear so will closewith best of lovefromYour loving sonWilf. I'm getting quite a corporation, itlooks as if I will present the goodold picture of a family doc when Ireturn, nice & portly & bald.