Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 30 October 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse regiment Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse RegimentAnzac30.10.1915.My dear mother,It is Sunday again - anotherweek has flown past, leaving me, I am thankful tosay, in good health & spirits. At the beginning oflast week the weather became very cold as thewind changed round to the North & here that isthe direction of the cold winds as they comefrom the Balkan mountains. Thar We werewearing overcoats & wrapping ourselves up as muchas possible for about three days when suddenly thewind veered round to the South & the weatherbecame beautiful once again, almost too warmin the middle of the day. The seasons & weatherchanges here appear to follow quite a regularcourse, as we have been issued with an accountof the weather changes here published in anEnglish paper & embracing the whole season& up till the present it has been absolutelycorrect. According to it November is tobe a beautiful month quite warm & calm. There are rumors that this Brigademay have a rest shortly as it hasbeen here since the almost the commencementof hostilities & if so it will probablygo to the Island of Lemnos whichwill doubtless be a very quiet holidayfor the men. There is no church serviceup here again today & I quite miss it,Sunday appears very much as anotherday without it turning to rough weatherthis week fresh meat & bread couldnot be bought over to us & wehad resort to the bully beef & biscuitswhich formed the men's food herefor so long & we did not rd relishthe change, as the biscuits are veryhard & tasteless & tinned meat nonetoo palatable. So we were very pleasedwhen meat & bread turned upagain today & it makes one thinkunder what infinitely better conditionswe are living here now than whenthe men first came here.Charley Wesley paid me a visit oneafternoon this week & I managed toprovide him with some tea, hottoast & butter, which my batmanbrings me always in the afternoons(the butter having been bought at acanteen at Imbros Island ) - tinnedIrish butter). I also dropped in to seehim ys one afternoon, & yesterday Icalled for him & we went round to seethe 5th Field Ambulance people inShrapnel Gully as they are old friends,Chapman who was in my year & Frizella year or two before were there & we hadtea & quite a pleasant chat. I alsotook some snapshots yesterdayat different points, - they should beinteresting if they turn out well.Military matters on the Peninsulahave been fairly quiet during theweek there is the daily shellingof different points & at nightit grows lively at variouspoints such as cl Hill 60& Walkers Ridge where theopposing trenches are close toeach other & there is an intermittentrifle & machine gun fire varied bythe louder explosions of bombs.There are different matters of minormilitary importance going onalways of course & of whichI am not permitted to speakbut on the whole we are justat present remaining contentwith what we have. The Turksdo not shell very much either- they must surely be short ofammunition, one morning lastweek however they grew lively& there was a short quickbombardment of various points,causing a lot of noise butdoing little damage. The sunsetshere are glorious, as we overlookthe ocean with its shipping, withthe Islands in the background behind which the sun sets &lights up with it's glow the sea, cloudsislands & land & the various tintsare beautiful. Did I tell youthat by chance the other dayI happened to be speaking toa Private coming along theroad, & he turned out to bea fellow named Cobb with whomI went to school at Scots College.It is remarkable how one meetspeople. I have not received any mailsover here - could not expect to do soyet as I explained in my lastbut am looking forward tonext week or the week after that.I have quite an easy time here,am wakened about 7 a.m. bymy batman who brings me somecocoa then he brings some shaving& hot washing water about 7.30am& I rise, breakfast at 8a.m. sick parade takes place at8.45 a.m. & I generally finishin about one hour, then I havemy men here to do some dressingsand go round on a Sanitary inspectionCome back about eleven oclock& have a look at any bad cases fordressing, then have a smoke &read till lunch. Am free then tillfrom 4.45 unless any men arewounded as they seldom are justat present but I like to be aboutin case anybody is hurt so only goout once in two or three days visiting.Then I have afternoon sick parade& dinner afterwards, & so thedays pass by. I hope that allmy distant loved ones are well& not worrying unnecessarily forthe absent one. Take care ofyourself mum, go out plentyBest of love to all the familywith mother's usual sharefrom her loving son,W. Evans Capt. Wilf