Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 14 September 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 14.9. 1917.My dear mother,I have been trying to write to you everyday since last Sunday & it has now reached Fridayof the second week. The trouble has been that theA.D.M.S, Colonel Dixon who is my immediate superiorhas been away & consequently I have had theresponsibility of attending to the medical requirements ofthe division in so far as staff work goes, & it has keptme very busy all week. Jack came over to see meone day last week and spent a whole afternoon here,seemed to enjoy himself too. Unfortunately I couldnot take him into the officers mess here, as the customof the army forbids it. However I managed toprocure him some nourishment as soon as hearrived & at afternoon tea time brought over tea& biscuits for two to my bivouac, & we did fulljustice to them. We were talking of afternoon teas inCandelo as Jack showed me a print of youin the buggy with Monty under the willows, takenjust before Jack left Australia - I thinkwhen he was on final leave. This led to adiscussion of afternoon teas under the willowswith you & we both wished we could joinyou at that time. However I said, as wecouldn't we would make the best of whatwe had & Jacks eyes sparkled when I appeared a little later with two cups of tea & somecurrant lunch biscuits. Jack is not in lovewith military life, but he did not anticipatethat he would be when he enlisted & Ithink grooming horses, several times daily & drivinga wagon for some hours is hardly the mostattractive job in the world. Still on the wholehe is content & has some good friendswith him. I had been so much in theoffice this week that I determined to goout yesterday & rode over to see Jackagain. My poor old horse went lamejust as I got there - sprained his fetlockI think & I was sorry as he is such agood reliable beast with plenty of go inhim. I had to leave him there &borrow another one to ride home.I had not much time to spare & what with fixingup about the horse & knowing another Jack& I didn't have much time for talking.We have had quite a number of visitorshere lately, a couple of officers from 3rd Ambulance came over the other day & stayed for dinnerat night - Leahy & Baker, you may haveheard me speak of them before.Then last night Parry & a dentist namedRobertson came over for dinner so we hadanother party.I'm rather lost this week as Smith, my batman,is in Cairo - he is very fond of trotting upthere if he gets a chance & as I had anopportunity of sending him up for a typewriterhe jumped at the chance.The weather is cooling down perceptibly here now& I expect that it will be very cold herein winter as we are some way North of Egypt.it is still very quiet on this front & afterall we are no having a bad time - a littlemonotonous of course & we all wish to getback home & to our normal occupationsagain but the is no use in thinkingabout it, we must make the best of it,& we always get 3 meals a day & livefairly comfortable at that, while the timesare peaceful I have been sitting here for about ten minutes nowtrying to think of some further news totell you, but bother me if there is anymy dear, so I must close thisuninteresting epistle with much love to all& an extra hug for motherfromHer loving sonWilf.