Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 1 July 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 1. 7. 1917My dear mother,Your very welcome letter of 8.5.17 safelyto hand today, also a couple from Jack, one writtenfrom Australia & one from Moasca after his arrivalin Egypt. He was probably there when I passed over inaeroplane. I fear that I will not be able to seehim for some little time as I have just had leave& there is that frightful railway journey betweenhere & the canal. Still I expect he will besent out here before very long, if not Iwill make a big effort to get leave & godown to Moasca to see him. I was awfullysorry to hear of Mrs Ellis' trouble, it isjust another illustration of what is happeningthe world over at present through thisinsane war. I am very sorry also. So father'seczema still troubles him. I wonder ifan ointment such as the following would dohim any good. It might be worth trying. I am very gladto hear that you feel well yourself & hopeyou will have more assistance in thehouse before this - you said last timeyou only had Mrs Rogers to wash & iron- that must in itself be a big job!!We are jogging on here as usual - oursecond in command Major Whitford has beentransferred to another unit, we are all sorryto lose him as he is a very good fellowIt may mean however that I will receivepromotion, very possibly, I think as Iam just about due. Did I tell youthat I met Colonel Dounes on the Cairostation - he is the head of the Australianmedical service in Egypt, & was very complimentaryin his remarks - said it was a shamethat I had not received a decoration as Irichly deserved one & so on. I said that wasn'twhat I came over for, but he said there were plentyof people with Military Crosses etc. who deserved themfar less. That is just for your information, my dear,& not general circulation as I know you arealways pleased to hear anything of the kind.I fancy you have very little idea of whatan Ambulance consists of, as you thought a littletime ago that we had only one officer - there aresix officers - Colonel, Major, & 4 Captains, andabout 120 men & we carry the wounded for aBrigade, consisting of 3 Regiments eachof which has its Regimental medicalofficer, as when I was with the 9th RegtWe have a certain number of ambulancecarts, some motor Ambulances attached nowthat the soil is harder, certain bearersto carry in wounded to the carts, tentswith tent division of men to dresswounded & so on. We collect woundedin battle, or sick in ordinary times from theRegiment & convey them to the rear & on toa casualty clearing station We treat acertain number of slightly sick casesin the Ambulance & send back the moreserious ones. I don't think I mentionedthat I had received safely the tobacco- thanks very much, please take the amountfrom my cash, my dear, as you thereis plenty & you have enough calls on youI believe if I pressed the matter Icould get a transfer back to basehospital for a while as I have been in thefield now for a couple of years & some of themen are being changed over. However I think Iwon't apply just yet as I don't care muchfor the hospital in Cairo, particularly in Summer.Possibly next winter you might like a tripover to Egypt - it's a fine place in winter& I could then get a transfer back tohospital. The only trouble is that it is verydifficult for women to get into Egypt now,the Colonel here has been trying for a longtime to get his wife over without success,and of course you don't seem very anxiousto travel at present. Still there are twoof us here now & the trip across theIndian Ocean is quite a safe thing. Thereare lots of Australian ladies in Cairoworking at Red Cross things about the hospital& so on. It is worth thinking about anyhow.I went out to dinner a couple of nights agoto Divisional Headquarters - they havea very good mess & well served. Of coursethe place is a mass of red tabs, as we callthem as all members of the staff wear redgorget patches and arm badges, but they werea very decent lot of fellows.We hope to go back from the frontline shortly for a spell at the seaagain & are looking forward to itvery much as it is hot & swelteringnow, though still not nearly sotrying as last year. No more newsmy dear, best love to all & a goodbig hug for mother fromHer loving sonWilf. WilfredJune & July/17