Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 6 August 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: France Nationality: Australian Text: 6.8.1918My dear mother,Here I am again starting another letterto you but this time I fear without any news at allto tell you. We are still in the same spot in the valley& have had rather a sweltering week, but it has cooledoff today a good deal. I have been kept fairly busywith my mosquito work to do & various other tasksin the office & so on. I started from here one morningat six oclock with Parkes from our Sanitary Sectionin a Ford motor car to visit the farthest portionof our line. We arranged for horses to meet us ata point beyond which the car would not go, & thenrode on several miles. I think that portion ofour line is the most desolate & hottest in thewhole valley. A gradual descent from hereleads into the fresh water stream of the Aujahwhich is quite a beautiful stream of freshwater though it's banks are now desolate & deepin dust from military traffic. Beyond this thereis another brackish stream called the Mellabahof which we hold one portion & the Turksanother. Mosquitos breed in both the Auja &Mellabah but we have cleared them outpretty well now in our part of the stream, but the portion of the Mellabah held by the Turks is stillvery bad apparently & mosquitos come down to usfrom there. Well we went on to our furthestposts as we must do our mosquito work asfar forward as possible to protect the men inthe first line. While we were in one of these poststhere was great excitement a Turkish patrolwas sighted & our people opened fire on them withgreat pleasure, as they are always looking fora little sport. They got their machine gunsready & rifles & while doing so I had a look atone of the Turks through a telescope sitting upon the skyline with his rifle in his hand.Then they all opened fire & it was funny to watchthe Turks running like rabbits for cover Ithink the range was rather great & they weren'tvery much harmed but everyone was pleasedso why worry? We then inspected ourmosquito area & came back to the fresh waterat the Auja where we boiled our billy & hadlunch. It was beastly hot coming down thegullies & we appreciated our tea very much.We expect another Australian mail in tomorrow& I am anxiously looking for letters from youas I want to know if my letters have reachedyou safely & how you are, as you didn't seemvery weIl when you last wrote. I must come along & buck you up some of these days - Amjust waiting a favorable chance to apply.The news from France lately seems very good indeed& we are all immensely pleased about it, particularlywhen it seemed so critical a little while ago.I'm trying my best to think of some more newsto tell you & don't think I can. Oh! did Itell you of the swimming pool in the Jordan, amost remarkable place, some of our peoplecamped near there whom I visited one dayhave a spring board erected to dive from &then one can go into a kind of whirl poolcaused by a bend in the river which takesone up stream for about twenty yards &then one swims out into the main currentwhich is very rapid & whirls one down ata great rate for about 50 yards & thenwith a few strokes to one side, one getsinto another current which brings oneback to the starting point. Very niceindeed on a hot afternoon but rather faraway from here. No more news this timemother mine. Cheer up, & don't bedown hearted, we've got the Germanscold now & we all hope to be homebefore 'so very' long, with lots of love& a big hug from Your loving son,Wilf.