Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 5 June 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 5.6.1918.My dear mother,I am a few days late again inreplying to your letters as it has been a busy weekagain & it has been very difficult to find any time towrite. Three letters of yours arrived recently 22nd &29th of March & 5th of April. Needless to sayI am delighted to hear that you are so pleasedwith your house buying & hope that Jack & Iwill attend at the house-warming a littlelater. My batman Smith has obtained leaveto Australia & as he will probably arrive inSydney I have given him directions to call& see you & tell you just how he left me,though I think he will be rather bashful,He is a good honest boy & a hard worker &has certainly done me well during the time I havehad him. You asked in one of your letters my dear, what to send me. I think justa letter or two ago I said quite a longrigmarole about it & my dear I justwant to repeat it now - please don'tspend anything on me at all, I canpurchase in Egypt practically all Irequire. I was completely out oftooth powder & wanted a pair ofdust & sun goggles a week or twoago & wrote to a fellow in the basehospital at Port Said enclosingsome money & he forwarded me whatI required in the course of three orfour days so that you see it is quitean easy matter. But please don't thinkI don't appreciate your offer. You mentionedleave in your letter - well to tell the honesttruth I lay on my bed this afternoon beforewriting this letter & was just contemplatingthe question - I might possibly be able to manage "transport duty after a time if I applied,but somehow or another there is a feeling ofreluctance to apply as I feel sure that if Imy application were successful & I reachedAustralia it would be very hard to comeaway again & I should be very temptedto try & stay. Certainly I have done threeyears solid work here now & I do long togo home again but nevertheless there isa feeling that one doesn't want to chuck itup. However I really believe that some ofthese days I will have a shot at itthough my application might not besuccessful if I did. Sufficient "reason''is the trouble. The heat in the Jordan valleyis not nearly as bad as anticipated sofar, but of course one never knows whatit may be later on - certainly up to thepresent it hasn't been so bad - 110 being the hottest day. And inaddition we are sure to be relieved &have a rest on the high groundsomewhere, before the end of the summer.I am still very well indeed & maintain myappetite in a remarkable fashion - Idon't know what to do about it, possiblyyou can recommend something.During the week I have been busy againwarring against mosquitos & havelocated several spots where they werebreeding badly. In one place we havedone extensive work - 1000 menemployed in draining swamps & clearingaway weeds etc our chief trouble isthe large swamp in front of ourlines where we can do nothing, & mosquitos from it attack the men in thefront line posts. Then we found anotherbad place in our lines where a large poolabout 300 by 30 yards & five feet deephad been left behind by the overflowfrom the Jordan & it is a terriblydifficult place to deal with.The Commander in Chief - General Allenbycame out to look at the work a dayor two ago so we had quite a distinguishedparty to view it. He looked at thework we had done & seemed pleasedwith it, but the trouble was we wantedhim to see some of the mosquito larvaeso as to impress or him how bad theywere - but we couldn't raise one anywhereas we had treated that part of thecountry & where there had previouslybeen millions not one could be seen. He is a great bustler, wastes no time,hit walks everywhere at a tremendousrate. He is in figure very large indeedwell over six feet high & head inproportion & has a most determined& certainly capable face.Finish now my dear lots of love toeveryone & an extra hug for mother.fromHer loving (if at present sticky) sonWilf.