Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 13 June 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Nationality: Australian Text: 13.6.1918 My dear motherAnother mail has arrived & two moreletters from you. I was sorry to hear that you were notgoing to Lismore as I'm sure you would have enjoyedit, but I can imagine how anxious you are to getinto your new home & I'm sure you will like LindfieldWhat excitement there has been over War Loans& how well people have subscribed. Of course,the Interest given is good too. I am wonderingwhen that cash you put in the CommercialBank will have completed its two years& if it would be a better investment in theWar Loan when the time is completed. Isit locked up indefinitely though in theWar Loan? Because one might need readycash later on & in it would be as wellto have some in a place where it could be freed in a few months or so. If theWar Loan can be drawn if necessary thoughit is certainly the best investment. Butyou know best my dear as you are onthe spot. I think I must send another100 over shortly from increased pay drawnhere. Being on Divisional Headquartersexpenses are higher & so the extra 7/6 perday which I receive for the higher rankdoes not mean as much to as it wouldin an Ambulance where it costs much lessto live. My defined pay must be accumulatingtoo & I heard a rumour recently that wewere to be allowed to put it into War Loansotherwise we get nothing from it at allI went over to see Jack a few daysago as his unit has come down nearto us again & he came over here oneevening after dinner & we talked much& long. I have quite a comfy bivouacat present & we were able to talk forquite a long time comfortably & free from interruption. Major Murray Jones the ADVS here(Assis Director of Veterinary Services) came in for a fewmoments & I introduced him to Jack.Jack looks well & is certainty plumper thanwhen he came across - he lives near thebiscuits at the Supply Section - & he seemsless neurasthenic than he used to be. He ishoping for leave to Cairo shortly & he is certainlydue for it after serving nearly 12 months overhere. We are very quiet here now, as most ofour work is in good running order & we have lessto do. Consequently we have more time to think& that always tend to make one f morefed up. Most of our mosquito work iswell in hand & I think should makea great difference to malaria, thoughit can't altogether prevent it as thereare still swamps in the Turkish lines &we get mosquitos from them. We anticipate going back to the hills where Jack hasjust come from, for a spell in a few daysas it is always so arranged that the troopsget a chance of resting.We are not going out very much at present asthe weather has warmed up a lot duringthe last few days & we prefer to stick toour tents. I had the chance of a runto the Dead Sea however a few daysago in a car & had a very interestingtrip. There is a collection of old buildingsat this end of it which were used by theTurks as grain stores where boats whichbought grain from the Easternshores of the Dead Sea (the ancientMoab) discharged their cargoes& the wheat was taken to Jerusalem.We had a swim in the sea & a mostremarkable experience it is, as nomatter what one does, it is impossible to sink. When one is over hisdepth it is quite simple, one just standsup in the water without any effort & head& shoulders stick out of the top of itLying on one's back & floating is also verysimple indeed, but one must be carefulnot to get too much in the eyes as itstings like fun. We were able to washoff the water when we came out insome fresh & very glad to do it tooas it tends to sting a good deal.So that is one more experience Ihave had this war which I hadnever previously anticipated.Finish now my dear with lotsof love & hugs fromYour loving sonWilf