Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 June 1915 Location: S S Karoola Nationality: Australian Text: S.S. KaroolaJune 17th, 1915. My dear mother, (also father, brothers & Suey)We are to have a chance to postletters tonight or tomorrow morning - how, I cannottell you as officers are put on their honor not togive any information at all & the men's letters arecensored I only hope that my last letter whichwas written before we received these orders wasnot censored before it reached you. I will justwrite to you this time & you can send the letteron as time will not permit me to write to allthe family. We are very comfortable indeed & Ihave not been seasick at all - it recalls to mymind a letter of yours some years ago picturing my trip toEngland when I got should get through my exams.We are a very happy family & the Karoolais a very fine sea boat so different to thelittle south coast tubs. When we left theheads it was as smooth as glass but becamesomewhat more choppy as the night passedwith the result that the attendance at mealstoday was considerably diminished I sleptwell during the night & did not rise till8 a.m this morning. Last evening we hada lecture from the Colonel in regard to our duties which are very light indeed. I have foundlittle difficulty so far in occupying time - thismorning I re arranged my kit so as toplace conveniently those things which I need.Then Graham & I read some of the R.A.M.C.Manual which has a very important bearingon our work. After that we had some exerciseon the boat deck to keep us in good trim.Someone was kind enough to present agramophone to the boat & after lunch weplayed it for a while for the edification ofthe nurses - 34 of them all told none veryattractive worse luck - then we read alittle more RAMC Manual had afternoontea then a smoke & a little magazinereading. Some very good souls[* This scratchwas put onby Graham asa censor markas we assistin that work*] sent avery large parcel of books & periodicalsto the boat which has greatly delightedus as we are able to fill in some pleasanthours with them. We are being fedexceedingly well. - it appears that theoriginal boats crew of the "Karoola" hasbeen kept with few exceptions & we arepractically travelling first class withthe same appointments & menu. Tonightfor instance we had soup, fish entree, duckor pork or beef, pudding, fruit coffee. There are the usual waiters & stewards & in additiontwo orderlies who clean our boots & do other oddjobs for us. We have a Presbyterian chaplainaboard by name Rev Paterson from Paramattaor near there who was well known to Mr. Anderson.I am sorry that I cannot tell you anyinformation as to our possible ports of callbut if you did not receive my last letter &wish to write just send the letters to any orall ports you can think of as possible placesof call & I may receive them or even betterperhaps if you addressed them to me onSS Karoola & c/o of Defence Dept.The embarkation yesterday was quite impressive,the bands playing, soldiers marching onboard with rifles to their shoulders, the linesof relatives & friends restrained outside certainlines by the police where occasional oddsoldiers would rush out to them & steal a lasthurried farewell, then the marching onboard the ferries to go to the steamer wherewe rested for several hours before movingon. Then the weighing anchor, thechorus of salutes from the surroundingboats & from every boat we met as wepassed down the harbour, swiftly leavin'behind all the well known landmarks of the harbour & steaming out on our voyage.One would believe that he was on an ordinarypassenger boat but for the khaki clad men& the sentries posted at different points withfixed bayonets. As The men are all contented& happy except those who are seasick &seem very comfortable. They are having regularparades in order to fit the for the work whichis to come & deck games will be commencedfor their amusement during leasure hours shortly,& I believe that boxing contests are to bearranged. Well my dear I must closenow, concluding with my best wishes &love to all the Evans Thomas family& it's numerous ramifications &hoping that all are well & cheerfulYour loving son (& brother)Wilf.