Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 4 January 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 4.1.1917.My dear mother,Since I last wrote you we have hada mail & I received one letter from you in it & todayanother registered one & also a nice little parcel ofchocolates & other little items. The socks also arriveda few days ago & were a very nice fine pair too -I have them on at present, Mabs socks alsoarrived so I am quite well off in thatline now. I also received the Life & Windsorfrom Candelo & three Sydney Mails from Ern& some other letters so I fared very well indeedthis time especially as a nice little parcel fromErn & Alice arrived only a few days ago. Itcontained chocs & biscuits, the former soondisappeared & I kept the latter for a few daysas the others here had received some cake &we had that for afternoon tea for a few daystill it was finished Then one day we movedcamp & missed our proper lunch & it was coldwet & miserable & the cooks managed to geta cup of tea about 4 oclock & x I camealong & found the others sitting round withfour cups of tea & nothing good to eat with themlooking very disconsolate & when I dived into a bag & produced the biscuits there wasa general roar of approval. We have onlya small mess here - four officers consisting ofColonel Frazer Major White Captain Bassett & myself& we have been joined lately by a Veterinaryofficer Captain Worthington who would otherwisebe on his lonesome. Some one or another ofthe party generally has something on handto help matters along. I told you, did I notthat we were so busy on Xmas day that wedined from bully & biscuits although we had sentall the way to Port Said to get turkeys. Wellwe were busy for some days after that butone day we slaughtered one of them & ourcook did his best & we had our Xmas dinneron Jan 2nd we had intended it for New Years Daybut our move spoilt it. He was a beauty& we had plum pudding (tinned) & some jellywith tinned fruit in it, followed by almonds &raisins so we just did have a spread. Itwas a bitterly cold day & raining most ofthe time so our appetites were sharp & wedid full justice to it. We have had mostremarkable weather lately, cold & rainy,we must have had several inches this week & for some reason or other we were moved somedays ago from out sheltered palm grove, somemiles away into a bare open bleak plain.Most of the poor fellows had no shelter savewhat they could make from waterproof sheets& blankets, & though most of them are very good atmaking shelters they must have suffered considerably.We had by this time evacuated all our wounded &had very few sick with us so were able to makeuse of one of the six tents we always carry withus & so were on clover. However today the weatherhas improved & we are back again in our palmgrove by the sea. Last Sunday we had churchparade on the ocean beach, quite picturesqueit was to see the hollow square of men drawn upon the sands with the breaking spray in the background& the padr in his robes. I felt awfully sadhowever as I looked at one of the regiments & missedtwo faces of officers who had fallen in the lastfight, such good fellows too, one had been a RhodesScholar & was a barrister by profession in Melbourne-Higgins by name (I think a son of the Judge).When I was picking up wounded just after thefight I came on a sorrowful group with his bodyin the midst - he had just been killed at the end& I picked him up hoping to bring the body right in here but soon found that I had toomany wounded to carry the dead so hehad to be buried there & they are makinga fine cross to be placed on it presently thoughit is so far away. I am glad you have mapsof this country you will be able to see our exactposition. You remember the long trip we wentto El Maza once - I did not mention thename but we had a brush with the Turks there.At that time we were on the canal side of Bir elAbd. Then where we were camped before coming onto El Arish was near Maza so you can see ourgradual advance. I am very glad indeed tohear that your health is improving &wish I could come along to take you outfor a run occasionally. Aunty Lily's preservedfruit was apparently addressed x wrongly &a letter posted to the same place eventually arrivedbut not the parcel. You were asking aboutwashing - my batman does that for mealways & is quite a good hand at it.You would laugh at the way we wash ourselves- when we rise in the morning we have a horse -bucket of water brought from a well if there isone handy spread out an oil sheet or sackon the ground & with the aid of a sponge & soap manage to sluice ourselves all overIt is rather chilly in the open & the windwhistles round a little but we are quite usedto it now. The sea has been very rough eversince we arrived but we quite enjoy it's roarwhen we are well & truly wrapped up in ourblankets at night. I have seen one or twoaccounts in the papers of the Battle of Magdabasince I last wrote but very poor ones they were& they don't mention very much the work ofthis particular Brigade which in this casedid the bulk of the work, but that isgenerally the way in the accounts of battlesIn August last at Romani, one would thinkthat the Infantry & Yeomanry had donewonders whereas they hardly saw a Turkexcept in the distance & the Anzac Divisiondid almost all the fighting & in the decorationslater the Infantry got about five or six honorsto xxx the Anzac Division. (I censored thismyself to save the official censor the trouble)I sent along to you a Turkish ground flagthis week with the hospital red crescent for onit. There were several of these scattered onthe ground about the hospital at Magdaba & I picked this one up. It willbe a good trophy in the future.Hoping you are keeping well & ingood spirits. Love to allwith mother's extra lotfromYour loving sonWilf.