Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 22 November 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Lenanon Nationality: Australian Text: 22.11.1918.My dear motherI must settle down this morning &try to write you a short letter as since our last operationsI have become rather irregular in my writing habits &time tends to slip away without one realizing it. Manythanks for the cake from the Civil Service which arrivedin very good order & was greatly appreciated. Wehave now settled down to camp routine & have tentsonce again so that we shall be reasonably comfortablein spite of weather conditions. The weather which wasso unpropitious when I last wrote has now clearedup & we have had a succession of glorious days.Now that the war is to all intents & purposes finished,I cannot take very much interest in things military& am only anxious to get home again. I wroteto Col Downes again putting up my case oncemore & he said he would do his best forme but could at present give no dates.So I don't quite know how matters stand at present, as I have nothing definite togo on. Still I think a month or two nowought to do it with any luck & if I seethe slightest chance I will rush it. Ofcourse everyone is wanting to get home now& there is rather a rush on, but in any caseI think I should be well to the fore.We are doing so little here at present thatI feel that I am just wasting time &so am more anxious than ever.Since I last wrote you I went for a fine tripup to the hills of Lebanon from here. These hugemountains rise sheer out of the plain to a heightof 10000 feet & from a distance lookabsolutely barren. Their tops are coveredin snow too. But strange to say amotor road has been constructedright into the heart of them to a placecalled Bisheeri & in order to scalethe heights it winds backwards &forwards in immeasurable loops with many sharp horseshoe bends. Instead of thebarren country one expects to see, there is arich land, & made rich solely by theexertion of the inhabitants. The Lebaneseare almost all Christian & form a sharpcontrast to the Mohammedan peoplesin their general habits & industry & their superiortype of villages. Whole mountain sideswhere one would hardly think a goat couldlive, so steep & rocky are they, havebeen terraced & cleared & the smallterraces thus made carefully plowed &sown with crop. It is difficult togain any idea of it without seeing forones-self, these hundreds of terracessupervening one on the other & converting abarren hill side to a fertile land.Innumerable villages most of thempretty & clean & surrounded withorchards and olive tree are dotted allalong the road. The view as one mounts higher becomes truly magnificent, asthe whole of the coastal plain is spreadout at one's feet with the sea beyondit. Near Bisheeri is the last remaininggroup of cedar trees for which the Lebanonwas once so famous, but as we obtaineda good view of them from the road &it is a steep walk of about 3 milesto them I was quite content with thedistant view. We lunched at whatpurports to be a hotel - Major Jacksonan oldish Scotsman on headquarters here& I formed the party - & were charged aruinous price for a very modest lunch.It is cooked in an adjacent room,the only means of heating being two smallopen braziers on which the pots areplaced. Consequently the meal evenfor two took some time to prepare.We came back along another routeround a tremendous gorge whosesteep rocky sides dropped precipitouslyfor hundreds of feet. The trip altogether must have been about 100 miles& I hardly think you would enjoy cominground some of the steep hair pinbends in a car, but it was on thewhole a delightful outing. Since thenwe have been fairly quiet here not verymuch to occupy ourselves with & plentyof time to do it in. We are all hoping tobe moved back to Egypt but ofthat there is no sign at present& it almost looks as if we aredoomed for a winter here. HoweverI hope not for yours truly. Withany luck I hope to be away in acouple of months at least.No more this time my dear, lots oflove to all & mothers extra sharefromHer loving sonWilf.