Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 March 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 17.3.1917My dear mother,Your welcome letter of Jan 26th & "GingerMick" came safely to hand yesterday I must write &thank Dr & Mrs Sharp. - don't know their addressbut will send it to you to forward. So you havebeen busily engaged making jam & chutney - howwell I can picture you in the kitchen preparingthe fruit, & skimming & bottling the jam, & wish Icould drop in & taste some, as I hope to dosometime in the next few months. Did I wishyou many happy returns on your 60th birthday- I really forget, but if I did not my dear,you know that if the wish were not expressedon paper, you know it is the desire of my heart foryou to have hundreds of thousands of them.Since I last wrote you hurriedly when movingcamp, we have moved a good deal. I completedmy work of striking tents & cleaning up thecamp & then after storing a good deal of theheavy stuff, I brought my little party along thebeach in easy stages. We had a delightfultrip as the weather was such a contrast tothat which we had experienced duringthe previous days, when one of those wretchedkhampsiens had been raging which Idescribed last year & which occur duringthe next two or three months Our camphad been perched on top of a hill wherewe were subjected to it's full force & the taskof striking & folding large tents was verydifficult in such a high wind, althoughseveral of them were blown down by thewind. It ceased however on the daywe moved out & the conditions were idealWe took two limbered wagons with us, to carryour rations & horse feed & camped out in theopen at night, with plenty of blankets asit is still cold at night. (Tell father I'mafraid I don't wear the abdominal beltthat was recommended to him when I wasleaving & don't think it is very often worn by many here anyone)The sand along the beach was quite firm forour limbers to travel on so we made goodprogress & rising early on the following morningcame up with the main party of the Ambulanceat breakfast time, fa & after feeding with them pushed on all together. We reached ourdestination that afternoon & laid out ourcamp & are now fairly comfortably settledthough not so much as before as we are unableto bring all the stuff we had before. Some ofour people have gone over to look at the spotwhere we had so many exciting experiencesdescribed to you in a previous letter & I hopeto go myself in a day or two. You will haveread of the Turks evacuating their strong positionin Southern Palestine in the paper recently & Imust say I'm not sorry for the sake of ourpeople as from all accounts it was verystrongly fortified & some of the lads would havereceived hard knocks in the taking of it.Reconnaissances in this country are veryinteresting now as it is inhabited & thenatives sell eggs & oranges which you mayimagine are a boon here when it is impossibleto get them from Egypt. 18.3.1917Got interrupted here my dear, & haven't hada minute to finish it since & want to sendit away so must close it instead of writing adecent letter after all. We are off on areconnaissance in the small hours of the night so I want to get to bed as it's nearlynine o'clock now so can't write anythingMuch love & a hug fromYour loving sonWilf