Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 25 December 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: At Sea Nationality: Australian Text: At SeaDecember 25th, 1915My dear mother,This is indeed a strange Christmas Day, the first Ihave ever passed away from home& it has been unaccompaniedby any of those glad & peacefulsensations which we are wontto associate with the festive season.I have been unable to write to youfor the last two or three weeksas no mail left Anzac for someten days or a fortnight priorto the evacuation of which youhave doubtless been alreadyacquainted & no opportunity forsending letters presented itselfduring our short stay at Lemnos.You will doubtless be interestedto hear something of the events which preceded accompanied& followed the evacuation & Ishall endeavour to tell youwhat I personally observed duringthat interesting time. * We hadjust settled down comfortablyin our new quarters & madeeverything snug for the winterafter the first cold snap, whenI noticed that our reserve store or"dump" of provisions (bully beef & biscuits)which had for some time spent some time previouslybeen deposited on the top ofRhododendion Ridge near ourcamp was gradually beingeaten into, although the weatherwas fine & there was no difficultyin bringing up stores. Well,the primary object of this dumpwas to have a reserve on theridge, which could be issued ifthe weather should have rendered the roads too slippery to conveystores up the hill. During therain & snow we had found it almostimpossible to bring up provisionsas the roads became very slippery& the hills are very steep. Then camean order that no fresh meat or breadwould be issued, consequentlywe were provisioned entirelyfrom our dump which daily grewsmaller, this during beautifullycalm weather which had alwayspreviously meant that fresh meat& bread could be landed. SoIbegan to smell a rat. Thenthe xx British Division wastaken away from Suvla Bay- it was said to go to Salonica(I anticipated the censor & erasedthe number of the division).Then followed some daysduring which nothing very eventful followed occurred.Various rumors of evacuationwere however current. Thensuddenly, a bombshell burstin our midst, several regiments& battalions received suddenorders to embark presumablyfor Lemnos & among themthe 10th Light Horse from ourBrigade to which youwill remember Charles Wesleywas attached. He had beenround to see me early in theevening & rushed round aboutten o'clock & woke me up ina great state of excitementto let me know the news.We were ordered to leaveour bivouacs & take over those10th occupied by the 10th L.H Regt& had to hold the line of trench which had previouslybeen occupied by them in additionto our own. They embarkedat night of course as themovement would otherwisehave been visible to the Turks.The nights however were moonlit& from our position, we couldplainly distinguish the outlineof several large transportslying offshore to take themaboard. These would alsobe visible to the Turks assome of their trenches werea great deal closer to thewater than our own atRhododendron. To our troubledminds this meant of coursethat he would divinethe move & attack us inour weakened condition. We forgot however that weknew all about it & hedidn't & he evidently thoughtthat troops were being landedfor to our scouts reportedthat he was improvinghis trenches & wire entanglementsas fast as possible. Howeverwe were in a state of considerablenervous tension which increasedas each day passed & ourtroops were depleted. Moremen were taken off on thefollowing night & a gooddeal of baggage & goodson the next two nights& some more men. Theordinance store wasthrown open to the troopsto take what they wished as it was impossible toremove the stuff for the livesof the men were imperilledby too long delaying to removegoods. So the men gotall sorts & conditions ofstuff from Jack boots towarm vests. All liquorswere destroyed. Then threenights before the finalevacuation the remainsof the ordinance caughtfire, whether by intentionor not I don't know- strict orders had beengiven to kindle no extrafires. It started abouttwelve o'clock one night& made a tremendousblaze & we all thought thatMr. Turk would surelyguess what was going on,- we did not feel too happy as we had a little more thana single line of defence& that was so thinly heldI began to picture Constantinoplefor Xmas. A Turkishplane aeroplane came overone day & we all wonderedif he would notice thesparcity of men. Then about6.30 p.m. on the nightfollowing the fire a wickedlooking enemy plane appearedagain in the moonlightor we thought it was anenemy & it flew verylow which looked verysuspicious. Our menkept all the usual fires going in our vacatedbivouacs & no roofingmaterial was removed& men were ordered tomove about a lot in orderto make things appear asusual. Then at last orderscame for our regiment tomove out on the second lastnight leaving two fourofficers & 28 men to manthe trenches previouslyoccupied by our ownregiment & the 10th togetherwith the machine gunswhich were all left tillthe last night as they areso effective in stopping anattack. The troops leavingwere divided into threeparties A B & C, we formed part of C partywhich were the last toleave on that night. Weassembled as quietly aspossible no smoking ortalking at eleven o'clockat night marched quietlydown to the main sap whichwe were to reach at 11.30 pmwhere we were met by aguide & were taken by himto the place of embarkation& without the slightest delaymarched straight aboardour appointed barge. Thesebarges accommodate 400men each & are of shallowdraught for the water atthe pier is not deep &are splendidly constructed for quickly embarking men.They are entirely made ofiron & are flat on top wherethere is accommodation for alarge number of men & havestairs leading down from theircentre to an inner part whichis entirely covered in & soshrapnel proof. They have quitea decent speed & are easilyhandled. While we werewalking along the main sapto the beach we saw a coupleof shells burst near the pieras the Turks had an unfortunatehabit of shelling the pierat night when for there wasa lot of traffic at thattime, & we wondered if theywould treat us to anyof the commonly called "iron rations" a term used by the men toindicate shells or bulletsthough its correct meaning isquite different being used bythe authorities for emergencyrations which are given totroops on the move. Well wewere comfortably seated on theboat when whish! bang! asshell burst near by &the pellets churned up thewater near us & one smallportion just grazed ^the nose of one ofthe Colonels but no one wasinjured. Having seen twoburst before I waited ina rather unhappy frameof mind which wasshared by most aroundI think for the next, as we felt so helpless sitting onthe top of the boat waitingfor her to finish loading &move off. Soon afterwardsthere was another whiz &"plunk" went the shell intothe water near by withoutexploding for which wewere thankful as it wasrather close, & then wemoved off. The scene onthe beach was a strangesight, for the pile of storeswas still burning & thislit up luridly the surroundingsshowing the remnants ofdestroyed ordinance lyingon the beach & the debrisleft by the withdrawnarmy - boxes of biscuits& beef lying about, splitopen, portions of clothing & baggage, & amongst thesethe dark figures of thecolumns of the troopsmoving to their place ofembarkation. We were takenout ^to sea by the barge & then putaboard a larger vessel whichconveyed us to the harbourof Mudros on Lemnos IslandIn my description of the sceneabove I omitted to describe thesounds which accompaniedit - the intermittent riflefire from the heights ofWalkers Ridge aboveus which is the usualmusic on the Peninsula &the occasional splash of bullets which had missedtheir marks & gone over intothe water. Men were frequentlywounded while landingfrom these overs as theywere called & one man waskilled & another woundedin the 3rd L H Ambulanceafter I left there in thesame way. The plans forembarkation in the followingnight were somewhatsimilar. Three parties wereto leave from each regimentA B & C the first at six p.m.second at ten & third aboutthree or four oclock in the morningbus The trenches of our wholeBrigade were mannedonly by 200 men, but allthe machine guns were there. 100 of the men leftin the first party, 68 inthe 2nd & 40 in the 3rdYou can imagine what itmeant to the 3rd & last partyThey had to hold their trenchesat all costs if attackedtill a certain time until theothers got away & the spiritin which they entered ontheir task was magnificentIn fact men were actuallycompeting to have thehonor of being in the lastparty to leave. As it turnedout however m the Turkwas completely deceived,no attack was made & the whole army cameaway without any casualtiesor at the most two or threewounded by stray bullets.What a difficult operationit was you can realizewhen I tell you that inmany places as at TheApex, Walker's Ridge,Courtneys Popes & QuinnsHill the trenches were onlyseparated by a few feetyards & in some cases feet& in one case they wereactually occupyingportion of the sametrenches as the Turks &only separated by a fewsandbags. Thus of courseit was necessary for themen who remained till the end to try & maintainthe usual amount of riflefire & bomb throwing soas to preserve things asusual but the questionwas what would happenwhen it all suddenly ceased& the men were on their wayto the boats x to surmountthis difficulty to a certainextent an arrangement ingenious device wasmade in order to maintainsome rifle fire for a while.X Several rifles were fixedin a wooden board withX a continuous string attached tothe trigger of each & aweights suspended tothe string. Then candles X were placed between eachrifle with the stringrunning through themof different lengths &lighted when the men left& then when the candleburnt down to the stringthis was burnt through& the weight hangingfrom it fell & so pulledoff the trigger of the rifle.X The candles were timedto burn the strings atintervals of about aquarter of an hour forevery two hours. AlsoX an incident which hadoccurred some two or threeweeks previously & whichat the time appeared inexplicableX now showed in its true light For orders had beengiven then for everyoneto cease fire for twodays & absolute silenceto be preserved. We thoughtat the time it was a ruse toencourage the Turks to attackbut it was evidently a blindto encourage them to believethat we would sometimeswithhold our fire for sometime. XBX The whole evacuationwas beautiful, it was workedas if by the clock &everything went smoothlyalmost all the artillerymules of which there weretwo or three hundredwere safely removed.In my short experience of military life I have never seen anythingdone as well XTo continue mypersonal experiences, wewere all very tired when weboarded the boat for Lemnos& I lay down on the Saloonfloor at two o'clock inthe morning & slept forwell till 7.30 am. Thenrose & had breakfast justas we entered MudrosHarbour. There we were xxxtransferred to a kind ofMosman ferry boat &taken some distance towardthe pier then put on boardsmaller boats like trawlers& finally into smallpuffing billy steam boatsfrom whence we weredeposited on the pier. Itwas by this time about 12.30 & we eat our lunchwhere we landed as wehad all brought lunch provisionswith us & then marchedto our camping ground.We were fairly heavily ladenwith packs on back, waterbottles, haversack &greatcoat that beingall we could bring withus. Transport was howeverprovided for sick mens& officers packs. I had sentmy sleeping bag & kitbag away some dayspreviously in companywith other officer's luggagewith some men to watchover it but have notseen it since - hope we will meet it in Egypt.We spent about fourdays at Lemnos undertents but I did notenjoy them as there was &could not be much comfortin a temporary camp. Weslept on the ground ofcourse & slept well, hadour meals in picnic fashionsitting on our haunches &found considerable difficultlyin having a good wash.We were all longing fora good bath & change ofunderclothes. I went outevery day to get some extraprovisions for our officer'smess, as we were near theGreek village of EastMudros in which there were a good number ofshops which delighted incharging exorbitant pricesfor everything There wasalso a French canteenas the main French campwas situated near by& in it we were able topurchase quite a numberof things principally tinnedfish, fruit & wines. I wasvery interested in the Frenchsoldiers we saw, they aremuch more picturesquelyattired then our men butI doubt if the uniforms areas serviceable. They were forthe most part fine strappingfellows, in which I wasagreeably surprised as the pictures I had seenhad led me to believe otherwise.The most common dress wasbluish grey in colour withovercoats of a similarcolor of c the cloth beinga rough serge. The overcoatshad always the frontlower corners tuckedback & fastened to thecoat behind to allowfreer movement in walking.Some wore pantaloonsof different colors, someblue some bright red &some other colors. Thecoats were of a somewhatsimilar shape to our ownbuttoning up to the neckfront. The caps aremuch flatter & narrower than our own with aparticularly Frenchyappearance about them,& in the case of officersoften had several bandsof color running roundthem which added to thegeneral appearance. Theofficers wore differentlycolored uniforms also &looked very smart, somehavin the bluish greycolor but more frequentlythey wore a dark blueuniform with bright buttons& various splashes ofcolor. The most interestingbody of troops I saw however were the blacktroops employed by theFrench, I think they wereSenegalese. Huge menthey were, averaging fullysix feet in height & broadin proportion with coalblack faces shininlike ivory & glitterin whiteteeth & clad in a blueuniform with a red roundred caps on their headsthey presented a strikingspectacle. I also visitedthe Greek chapel in MudrosEast - a tawdry place afterthe magnificence of themosques in Cairo &ornamented with large coloredpaintings of Christ, varioussaints & various Biblical scenes An old priest was inattendance who thankfullyreceived some silver &burnt several tapers forthe good of our souls.The priests are of a lowclass, one of them wasengaged in sellingfruit & nuts & theybelong as you know tothe Greek church whichis so powerful inRussia & other parts of EuropeWe embarked muchto our satisfaction afterfour or five days stayon the Island but in doing so I with severalother of our officers wasseparated from the mainbody of our troopsregiment as sufficientaccommodation for officerswas not available on theship in which they wereembarking & we were puton another boat. Sheproved to be a finevessel one of the captiveNorDeutcher Lloyd boats& we have been verycomfortable save that theboat was is very crowded.I have written this letterat intervals on the trip& am now in the harbourof Alexandria safe fromthe submarine peril for which we are verythankful. The voyageoccupied two days &the weather has beendelightful & the sea calmsave for a little anxietyin regard to submarineswhich however was verysmall as none of uswas thought much ofthem, the trip has beenvery pleasant The novel xexperience of entering a bath xfull of hot water, lying xon spring mattresses xsitting at a table & xeating from off a tableclothwith stewards to wait on us & plenty of plates &cutlery available was &is by no means unpleasant.We are just now waitingfor the military authoritiesto determine when & wherewe shall land & wherewe shall go & as soonas I have the opportunity& enough money (for atAnzac we never carriedmuch & my finances arevery small just now untilI reach the pay office)I intend to send youa cablegram whichI suppose will not befar behind the Christmasone I sent from AnzacIf I have the opportunitywhile passing through Alexandria I shallendeavour to seekout Miss Gwen Evansbut we may be carriedstraight away to Cairowithout the opportunityof calling anywhereI must now concludemy long & dreary epistlewhich I hope will notbore you overmuchbut which I shouldlike you to preserve forme as I have noteddown most of myrecollections, withbest of love to all & adouble share to mother fromHer affectionate Son, Wilf. Please keepthis letter withinyour own circle as Idon't know if I should havewritten as much as I have done.*]