Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 10 September 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Port Said Nationality: Australian Text: [*Please post to Mabel at once -Mabel post to Harry -"Livesey"*]7 Canberra GroveMalvernMelbourne. Victoria 10.9.1918.My dear mother,I am commencing to write to youafter lunch on my birthday, which I had quiteforgotten until a parcel from you containing acake appeared in my bivouac just before lunch.It was rather remarkable that it should arriveon the exact day, it only did so by being delayeda few days, as it was sent to the place atJerusalem where I had stayed for a short time& was then sent on. I received no less thanfour letters from you by this last mail,some old & some new & only hopethat you are not overdoing things inthat nice home of yours. We have learntmore than ever over here not to worrytoo much about exteriors & as long asone is comfortable what does appearancecount? I shall be quite capableof living in a small tent when I go back & could be quite happy & comfyin it too. No expensive furniture required-merely a bed & a comfy chair &a table. We have not done very muchhere lately, life is much easier when weare resting as we are at present & thereare practically no mosquito breedingareas to worry about. Col Fowler isaway at present - he has his wifeat Cairo & has gone to see her.Quite a number of officers have theirwives over here now & there is quitea large Australian colony at Port Said -fifteen or twenty women at least & theyhave almost taken possession of thehotels there. Two or three babies haveappeared lately too I hear & moreexpected. One rather funny incidentoccurred when a child was bornto one officer's wife & a friend wished to inform the husband who was in thefield of the occurrence that he wasthe father of a daughter & not a boy.He had necessarily to put red themessage into military form so that itmight be considered official & sobe sent to the officer at his unit. So hecomposed it thus - "Indent for drawers,leggings & spurs no longer required".The country round here is very pretty indeed& there are some beautiful rides in the vicinity,so we take advantage of these wheneverpossible. Towards evening it becomes quitecool & delightful & we thoroughly enjoya canter over the country to one or otherof the pretty villages. We are alloverjoyed with the good news from France& we have a splendid map of thebattlefield here at headquarters & Ivisit the office where is kept each day & follow the progress we make on it, aswe receive the news each day by wire.Talking of business - I now have over 100over here now partly in my paybookundrawn & partly in the Anglo EgyptianBank & I think the best thing for meto do is put 100 into War Bondshere & send the receipt on to you.Arrangements have been made for usto do that through our pay peoplehere & it will save lots of bother insending it home. I always keepa certain amount of money in handfor emergencies (going home! or on holidays)but & was waiting until I had accumulated100 over & above this to put it intoBonds. I must see the paysergeant about it today.I have not heard very muchmore about my trip yet - Col Storey went on the last boat - you may readof his arrival. I don't think I willbe quite the next but I'm not fardown the list - among the first twoor three at any rate & it just dependson the number of boats going homewith sick & wounded. I wouldbe quite pleased to get home aboutChristmas time. The only trouble isof course coming back as I'm sureI wont feel anxious to do so whenI go home, although Id I wouldhate to give it up in a way before it'sfinished. Still there are certainly lotsof people who have never come awaywho ought to relieve us now. Onthe other hand experienced men arerequired here & there are not toomany about. From a personal standpointI would like to tho go into civilian life tomorrow as I'm practically ruiningmy career in the military & will have tocommence all over again when I oncegive it up. However before I leaveI will ask Col Downes what hethinks about it & if he asks for apromise to met come back I canhardly refuse. However my dearthe war isn't going to last long & I mayyet be able to stay when I do come.No more this time, lots of love &hugs I many thanks for the cakewhich is equal to your very best& that's saying a lotYour loving sonWilf. Melbourne Monday.My dear Mother,Just a line advising safe returnbut very tired - warm crowded train and Ididn't take a sleeper. All well. Sold 3000maps in Sydney - a bit disappointing but nottoo bad. Hope you are both well. Love Harry.Many thanks for great kindnesses.