Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 10 August 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 10.8.1917.My dear mother,I think in my last note I gave youmy address as D.A.D.M. S. Australian Mounted Division A.I.F.Egyptso I will not need to repeat it. I had anotherletter from Jack a few days ago & he seems fairlywell settled in the Divisional train & I am veryglad indeed as it is one of the best jobs going & heis generally well behind the firing line as their workis to bring along rations for the troops on big wagonswhich do not go right up. I do hope that youhaven't bothered about getting that armouredshirt arrangement, it would be almost uselessout here, my dear, & waste of money. You wantto beware of people filching good cash fromyou by playing on your sant affections &sometimes your patriotism, though I don'tmean by that to detract from the value ofthe many worthy patriotic funds. I amgetting fairly well settled in my new job &now have my coat adorned with one of thosegorget patches or staff tabs as we call themwhich are fixed on to the flap of the turned downcollar of the tunic in front. We wear blue oneswith a stripe of red in the middle of it, & notred ones as the General Staff do. So Im a regular peacock now with avengeance. I have been out very little sincemy arrival here, as sea bathing & readinghave afforded me quite sufficient exercise& recreation. My chief here the A.D.M.S, isa very fine man - Colonel Dixon formerly in chargeof the 1st Ambulance & a medical man fromBrisbane, He is a real good sort in every way& capable to boot so I consider myselfvery lucky. We are having a very easytime at present as we have remainedstationary on the beach, but I am takingadvantage of it, to get a grip on thegeneral work here & the way matters arecarried out. I like the change here, as it isdifferent work & I had felt for some few monthspast that I would be glad of some radicalchange as the work in the Ambulance wasbecoming a little monotonous. A lot of theofficers here are Britishers & include one or twolords among them but in spite of that, theyare on the whole decent sorts. No more news thistime my dear, very best of lovefromYour loving son,Wilf.