Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 10 January 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 10.1.1918.My dear mother, Another mail arrived today from Australiabringing me a letter from you & a parcel of tobacco.Our accumulated mails are all arriving at one timenow, lots of papers came also - Sydney Mails fromErn, papers from Harry & several bundles of Candelorecords from you. What a pity Johnson should haveput in that mis-statement about myself gaining anM.C. - he was confused apparently with anotherEvans in France who obtained one. My chance ofobtaining that are now quite gone, though I know thatthe recommendation which resulted in a mention in dispatcheswere intended for something of the kind, though I shouldnot say it. At that particular time opportunity arosexx which is not likely to re cur recur & the fact ofhaving done one's best is it's own reward without anythingfurther. A Sydney Mail arrived containing my photomuch to my surprise - how on earth did it findit's way there? The others got hold of it & chaffedme like fun at mess tonight with greatamusement to themselves & me. I was very sorryto hear that you had received no mail fromme in so long a period as I certainly wrote eachweek, but expect it was the result of sending our letters via England as we have heard they weredoing. There will be a gap however during theNovember operations when I was unable towrite for some weeks. I do not require somuch tobacco as you are at present sendingmy dear - I think that two packets ortins a month will be quite sufficient & I caneasily get some kinds which I don't care asmuch for in Egypt if it is not sufficient.I must really insist, my dear, on your takingenough money from my account or cheques to coverthe expenditure you are making & have madeon it, as I know what expenses you haveat present especially with every thing so veryexpensive in wartime & I do wish you wouldtake 10-0-0 or so just to help on aholiday or buy you something you need, mydear or to cover some of your expenseswith the Shaw family, as I am earningplenty at present.If the war continues to go on, I shall makean endeavour to come home as transport dutyor something of the kind before another year isout, but goodness knows if it will succeed as one must always produce documentary evidenceof good reasons for it - financial or otherwise &I don't see how I can do that. At any rate Iwill have a hard try at some future date butI hate making myself a nuisance to those inhigher positions. Cheer up, my dear, you seemto have been in the dumps about the war in yourlast letter - it will all be right in the end. Theboys in France seem to have had a terrible time duringOctober from all accounts we have had fromAustralia & France, & we must consider ourselvesfortunate here. When I last wrote I think we werein the hills, we have now moved back for a spellstayed in a Jewish village for a day or two - billetedin houses & then marched on here to ___.We have a splendid camp now, proper bell tents tolive in, camp stretchers & chairs to lie & sit on &a big E.P. tent for a mess. So we are once moreliving in luxury & enjoying it. Leave to Cairowill be on again shortly but I doubt if I will takeadvantage of it as it is hardly worth going for3 days & there is little in Cairo to make oneself reallyenjoy things except to live in a hotel for a few dayshave hot baths etc & the change from the life in campwhich is the main thing of all. 12.1.1918I went to bed & did not quite finish the letter two nights ago.Since then more of our accumulated mails have arrived -all kinds of papers from you & Ern Harry & Mab so I am atpresent very well supplied as it represents about twomonths mail all at once.I had a letter from Wesley yesterday, he has now goneto a Field Ambulance in France & said he feltquite strange to the work there as he had neverbeen in an Ambulance before & always says that hewishes he was back with us here & so do I.I had a parcel from Coopers in Liverpool & don'tknow who is the sender - either Aunty Lily or Elsie EvansI think, at any rate it is very awkward as Idon't know which one to write & thank.I am busy inoculating the staff here today againstcholera - all the troops are inoculated once everythree months as cholera occurs in Syria & it behovesus to take every precaution. The work of the medicalservices in war largely takes the form of prevention &the results obtained speak volumes for it, as evidencedby the few cases of typhoid cholera & other preventablediseases which occur. My own work at presentconsists largely in supervising the sanitation& water supply. These are things whose you importanceyou do not realize in civil life, like many otherthings in war, but if you consider that thousandsof men move into an area which has largelybeen camped on before & have to obtain their drinking water in that area you realize the difficultieswhich sometimes face us particularly when moving onto ground which has previously been occupied by Turksor Bedouins with their usual dirty habitsI must wish you this letter very many happyreturns of your birthday my dear, & wish Iwere somewhere near a shop where I couldget something to send you just to showyou I am thinking of you.One of the fellows from here - Hughes from Melbourneleft last night for Australia - his boat sailstomorrow - lucky devil, but I think his fatheris away on war duty somewhere & there are lotsof business matters which he has to re adjustso that he had the necessary excuse to takehim home on leave particularly I thinkas during his father's absence his sister becamemarried to some bogus doctor in Melbournewho was proved to be a fraud & then shothimself.Must close now mother mine with best oflove & lots of hugs fromYour loving sonWilf Send these to Ernplease - as usual -All well ErnHope you and yoursare. Leah here.Love H.It wasmy palJackreferred to