Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 28 August 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 28.8.1917.My dear mother,Australian mail day! And such a good mail, thistime, with lots of papers from Ern Harry yourself & a couple of booksCharley Wesley sent from England. I had a letter from Jacktoday which took a fortnight to reach me, ashe wrote to Cairo to my address there & hasreceived none of my letters as he has changedhis address too. I also find, my dear, that readingyour letters brings you so much nearer & I think themail is the best thing we receive here. I hope you havenot gone to the expense of buying one of those body shieldsfor me as it is really not necessary, though I doappreciate the motives behind it, I wonder if youcould cancel the order if it has not been delivered.In my present position I am not nearly so muchexposed to danger as I was in the Field Ambulance& in this hot climate it would be impossible to wearany steel jacket however fine it is.Fancy you intending to leave Candelo at last!The thing we have been looking forward to, forso many years & hoping that we should be ableto join together in Sydney. Well well, my dear itwon't last so very much longer & then it will be splendid. The trouble now is for you to picka home as it is so expensive if you have nosettled place to live in. Whatever you do, don't tieyourself down to another spot too firmly untilmatters are more settled. Wish I could get leavehome, but fear that is out of the questionjust now though there is a lot of talk of5 weeks leave to England for Australiansin Egypt which would be a splendid thing ifonly you were there. It is terribly difficult to go toAustralia nowadays as there is hardly anydirect boat communication save when ahospital boat goes along. If they would allowwomen to come to Egypt that would be very fine, butstill it is so very far & it is no use coming sofar as this unless you could go on to England,I certainly think when the war is over we shoulddecide on going to England - I would like togo direct from here to try & do some morehospital work if the military authorities wouldallow it & if you could come along fromAustralia it would be splendid.In the meantime however where are you going to live?That is the question. Somewhere near SydneyI think where Harry Ern & Mab could callin conveniently. But not in the City oreven the suburbs unless on the very outskirts. A nice good big patch of ground & a new little house& a garden & some fowls & in a convenient & pleasantspot. But where that is the trouble! Parsley Bay isthe only spot, I can think of just at present &fulfills most of the condition especially as youhave many friends about there and it is convenientto town though at the same time fresh & almostin the country.I almost thought I was in Australia when I wasscrawling away at that. One thing I want totell you now & that is not to worry about Jacknow he is in the Divisional train - it is thesafest job out here that he could have beendrafted into & as for myself on DivisionalHeadquarters it would really be very bad luckindeed to get hurt, so chin up mother mine& we will hope to see you in no time at allwith a nice little central home.Mr Marshall might be able to suggest a good spot.if you can't think of one yourselves & I daresayfather has got one in the back of his noddlethat he has seen thinking over at night whensmoking his pipe of capstan & pretending to readthe paper & will suddenly spring it on you someof these days - now what about it father haven't you?I have been passing the days fairly pleasantly here this week - the job is new & variety especiallyas military life is charming. I get up late in themorning - quite a luxury, do some office workafter breakfast, and then generally go for aride round inspecting camps, making for themost suitable spot about lunch time.Later.Here slight interruption for a little office work & would you believeit a trooper just dropped in with a letter from no less a personthan Jack who is only about 5 miles away. I had just writtenhim a note too which is a marvellous thing. So I will rideover on the first day I have a chance, probably the dayafter tomorrow. Only two days a go I went past thatspot on my way to spend a day at the beach littleknowing that Jack was near by. Three of us wentacross to visit Cave who is now a Colonel in charge of the1st Ambulance. By the way Colonel Fraser whois in charge of the 3rd Ambulance & was there constantlyduring my period in the Ambulance & with whom I wentthrough most of the work is going to Australiashortly. He lives in Queensland but is almostsure to call in at Sydney & I will give himJobs address & also our own as itpossible that you may see him though ifhe called in at Jobs they would givehim all news of you as they are in touchwith you . You would like to see him I'msure, as we have been quite a lot together Almost tea time mother mine so I must soon cometo a conclusion.I have a horribly large appetite nowadays but thatI suppose is a good sign. Living at Headquartersis more expensive than in the Ambulance - costsabout 5/- a day but we do fairly well.Tinned things over here have gone up enormouslyin price & I suppose the same holds goodin Australia.News finish my dear best of loveto all & mothers usual love fromHer loving sonWilf