Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 29 March 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: A Februaryedition of Lifecame to hand a fewdays ago - very welcomeout here as reading matter is scarce.9th L.H. Regt29.3.1916.My dear mother,I commence again aweekly letter in the hope that I mayhave some items to tell you but when Ireflect find that there is absolutelynothing. I am glad to say however thatI have received a budget of letters fromyou, three in one mail, one more two orthree days later & still another with onefrom Mab two days ago, so that I ammaking up arrears. I was glad tohear from your last letter that youwere enjoying yourself with Mab butsorry indeed to think of you so soonparting. I wish you would take atrip to Sydney & see someone about yourback & then why not have a runup to Newcastle & Lismore. Now thatI am so far away (worse luck) youought to take a trip around morefrequently as the others cannot gohome so often as I was able to doI was awfully grieved to hear of Mr Wilkinson's death, what an awful blowit must have been to poor Mabel Leplan.Please convey to her my deepest sympathies.We are going on here from day to dayin the same way only it is getting hotterwhich we don't altogether appreciate. Allranks here are to be given 3 days leaveto go to Cairo & I have applied for mine& hope they will grant it as it wouldbe a nice though expensive change torun up there for a few days. Wesley &I met two or three days ago halfwaybetween our respective camps & hada chat for a couple of hours inan old deserted hut after tying our horsesup outside. There does not appear tobe any likelihood of Mr Turk makingany attempts to come in this direction& we appear to be destined to havea very quiet time. If at any timeI should happen to move I will cable to you & let you know.Our new Colonel - Arnott has arrivedtoday - I think I told you lastweek that he is one of the SydneyArnotts. I am at my wits end totell you news my dear but myletters are a reflection of the lifeI lead, if full of interest the lettersare interesting, if not - well there isnothing to tell. Mab said in herletter you were looking well, thoughyou said you had lost weight.Now my dear you must try &buck up & look well for me whenI return home as I should notlike to see you thin. I think if I'mnot home by next winter butstill in Egypt you will have totake a trip over here, it is a fineplace in the winter though Ican't recommend it in summeras a health resort. It isn'tso far either & is full ofAustralian visitors in winterGoodbye my dear & goodluckBest of love to all with mother'susual share fromHer loving son,Wilf.