Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 2 August 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 2.8.1917.My dear mother,I am afraid that owing to the frequentchanges in my manner & place of living lately, my usualregular habits of letter writing have been somewhat upset& it is in the middle or rather nearing the end of the weekagain before I commence my home letter I am at presentspending a few days with the Immobile Section of the3rd Ambulance which is at present running aRest Camp for the tired men of the Brigades on thebeach. There they are well fed or rather have extra feedfor the army ration is always a good one, have nothingto do save swim read & sleep, & they have a glorioustime generally. The Red Cross Society in it's usualsplendid way supplies books, extra food comforts, shirtspjamas, razors, chairs, tables, gramophones & records,piano & gives them all sorts of little things theyneed. I have been "out of a job" as it were sinceI came from Cairo as all arrangements were upsetby what happened in connection with that, soI have been taking life very easily for a while.However I received a wire yesterday to the effectthat I had been appointed D.A.D.M.S. (DeputyAssistant Director of Medical Services) in this Division& will take up duties there shortly. I was very glad to receive the appointment as it is the pickjob for a man of my rank here giving one agood deal of status & I feel that is is arecognition that I have done my job work decently inthe past. x It is also a satisfaction to methat when I came over here I didn't knowa soul in the higher command, so that it isquite apart from a personal interest.I am having quite a varied experience & onewhich is constantly increasing in size as itwere, first as M.O. to a regiment, the smallestunit, then in an Ambulance which deals witha Brigade of 3 Regiments, & now in DivisionalHeadquarters assisting in the direction of the medicalwork of a division consisting of 3 & sometimes 4Brigades. To make it clearer to you I will drawa diagram. I Division (commanded by Major General) IIIBrigade I Brigade I Brigade I III III IIIRegiment x x x x x x x x xcomposed of 3 brigadeseach with its AmbulanceEach Brigade with3 regiments, & amedical officer attachedto each The Medical officer of a Regiment sees the sick men ofhis Regiment daily, treats them in the Regiment if only slight cases & sends them to the Ambulance if more severe. He has notransport for them, the Ambulance does that with it'sAmbulance wagons Etc. The Ambulance keeps thesick men if it is thought the illness only of slightnature, otherwise it sends them back to a clearingstation or stationary hospital from where they maygo to the base. The Ambulance consists of aColonel, Major, 4 Captains & about 120 men,so it is a fairly large show. Then the threeAmbulances in a division & all the medicalofficers in regiments & other medical personnelare under the control of the A.D.M.S. ofthe Division who arranges their dispositionEtc. He is assisted by a Deputy A.D.M.S or D.A.D.M.S.which is the job I am taking on, so now you will seewhere we are.Word has just come through so my batman has justtold me that I have been " mentioned in dispatches"so everything is coming together isn't it mydear?Strange to say, young Willie Shaw has come tothe 3rd Ambulance & is in this particular section.I get him in at night sometimes to have a talkwhen there are no other officers about as it isimpossible to do so when the others are here, asmilitary custom forbids it. That makes it veryawkward when one has a relation in the same unit. & for that reason I am glad I will notbe here at the same time, as you have noidea how awkward it is in military life, asofficers cannot have very much to do with themen or discipline would fail. So I got Willieinto my tent two or three times & we have hadsome long talks - he seems quite a good kidthough rather of an average type. He is welloff here & has come to quite a good home for themilitary business. I I will let him fight his ownbattles as the less one interferes the better, forthere is nothing worse than showing favoritismin a unit on account of relationship - Ihave had to do my own scrapping & thinkit is easily the best way. If I can assisthim in any other way, though, as I maypossibly be able to do, I will certainly doso, but not to the extent of doing anyspecial thing in a unit itself.For the same reason Im glad dear oldJack is in a different unit, as complicationsalways arise when in the same show. I hada letter from Jack yesterday, he told me that he had been drafted into the divisional ammunitioncolumn which is a jolly good job for him& I sincerely hope he is able to stick init. Am anxiously waiting to hear fromhim again as he said that he expectedto be coming out very soon.I think this long & windy screed is nearlyfinished now, my dear, hope you arekeeping well & in good spirits as yoI am & should be I think after gettinga good job & being mentioned in dispatchesMuch love to all & mothers usual sharefromHer loving sonWilf.Address now.Major W EvansD.A.D.M.S.Australian Mounted DivisionEgypt.