Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 30 August 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: France Nationality: Australian Text: 30.8.1918.My dear mother,I have missed some daysin writing to you this week as we have beenon the move & letter writing has been postponedfrom day to day. In addition my writing paperhas run out & I have to use this scribblingstuff. Since I last wrote to you, I think, Iwrote out my application for leave to Australia& a day or two later Col Downes was visitingour x Divisional headquarters & drew me aside.He told me as I had already heard thatI was already down on the list to go inturn but practically said that if itwas urgent I could go on the boatwhich recently left & carried y mylast letter to you. He did not say thisin so many was words but I gatheredit from his conversation. He was verydecent indeed about it, as he hasalways been with me, but & went on to say it would be rather awkwardif I went just now as Col Dixonhad only recently left & it wouldrather upset things if we were bothaway at the same time or at any rateso soon after one another. I saidthat I didn't want to hurry it toomuch & could wait if he wished untilCol. Dixon returned in two or threemonths, & that all I wanted wasto hold out some definite hope to youthat I would be able to go home.shortly say in two or three months time.He said that I could surely dothat so there you are my dear.Cheer up. I may be home forXmas yet, in fact I'll be surprisedif I'm not. We are quite a long way from where I last wrote as we wererelieved & are now in rest. I arrangedthings very well, as I motored to Jerusalem& waited there until our people hadarrived here & then joined them.I stayed with a rest camp therewhich is formed by one of our Ambulances& is situated in an old monasterywhere the patriarch of Jerusalemused to live. He was taken awayby the Turks & his house furniture& all is occupied by the restcamp with the addition of anumber of tents. I was verycomfortable there & enjoyed thefew days I spent in it. The dayI arrived at Jerusalem I lunchedat the Jerusalem hotel, met fourof the nurses from our hospital on a visit to Jerusalem also, had a fewwords with them after lunch, as theynot too many as I wasn't veryinterested & trotted away to theRest Camp. The house is beautifullysituated in the German portionof the city in large grounds of it'sown & surrounded by a number oftrees & vineyards. There is an oldGreek church next to the house over theburial place of St Simeon & therestill remain a couple of Greekpriests who chant weird dirgesseveral times daily. There is alsoa German woman living in the nextplace whose husband is a Syrianmed doctor in the Turkish army& at present in Beirut. She hasa couple of pretty kiddies & of courseis mournful about things generally.Her mother who was with her until recentlyhas been sent to Cairo with all otherGermans, but this one left as she, beingmarried to an Ottoman subject is treatedas one & remains in Jerusalem. Shestill has a mother in law with her butseemed pretty miserable & I don'twonder - poor thing. There are lots ofcisterns for water about the house, witha tremendous storage capacity as it wason this that they depended for their watersupply of before the war & they are allfull of mosquito larvae & our fellowshave contracted a good deal ofmalaria there. So "yours truly" useda net at night & advised themto oil all the wells & I think thefellow in charge is doing so. I madeseveral attempts to leave Jerusalem & join the Division but was not successfuluntil the 3rd time. The first time, xthe car I was in went wrong -"stuffed the hut" the driver saidthough I don't suppose that makesyou any wiser. The next time wegot a few miles on our way whenanother car tried to pass us &the silly driver in charge of it, forsome unaccountable reason switchedacross the front of our car strikingour front wheel & caused us totopple over the edge of the roaddown a bank. It rather madesome mess of the car as it fellseveral feet but we were allfortunately unhurt save for a few bruises though the driver got ratherscared, as when we extricatedourselves we found him pinnedto the ground, as a seat had justmanaged to fall on his neck & hewas bearing most of the weight ofthe car. He looked & certainlywas a most scared man untilwe relieved him of his troubles.We were fortunate as we might havecome off much worse. We hadto leave the car where it was &go back again to Jerusalemcontinuing our way next day.We have a beautiful camp sitejust now situated among someolive trees with a splendid view comfortable mess, all our baggagehere & we are enjoying life. Ihave even a mattress on my campstretcher so I'm in the lap ofluxury. Before we left the valleyJack came to see me - he hadonly arrived there the previousday & he spent the eveningwith me in my tent. We hada little supper - biscuits youhad sent me, me tea & some limejuice & soda etc. & talked abouteverybody & everything in general.He looks well & feels quite anold soldier now, is anxiousto get some leave to Cairo too I saw Willie Shaw at the Ambulancetoday, he looks well also - lasttime I saw him in the Jordanvalley he had a touch of sandflyfever & wasn't too well buthe is very fit again now.That influenza which is raging inEurope has reached here & istravelling rapidly through most places& a lot of people have had it here.Fortunately I have escaped sofar & hope to do so altogether-I generally manage to dodgethings with a little luck & a littlemanagement & hope to avoidthis too. I must bring this long-winded scrawl to a close my dear hoping you are well & taking careof yourself so as to be very fitwhen I come home, with lotsof lovefromYour loving sonWilf