Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 7 April 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 7.4.1917.My dear mother,Three of your welcome lettersarrived by last mail with quite a number of othersso I had a splendid time reading them all. Ithink now some of them had been delayed in transit asmy previous mails had been scanty. I also receivedquite a number of papers, a "Life" from you, SydneyMail from Em, Bulletins and Messengers from Harry & someCandelo Records from you. What a splendidseason you are having, the dear old hills mustbe a picture. I can see the view from theback & front verandah in my mind'seye very distinctly just now. I suppose allthe farmers are [[coming]] money now & businessfairly brisk in spite of the war. I hear theUnited States have joined in now, though notyet confirmed, & Im very pleased, themore the merrier, say I, & the quicker we get home. I think in my last letter Itold you about the fighting near Gazaso I won't repeat it this time. It wasthe division to which Cousin John Evansis attached that was principally engagedso I suppose he had plenty of workto do. I have been intending to lookhim up, but E work here has rathertied me down lately & I don't quite knowwhere he is situated. We are comfortablysettled again for the time being, goodnessknows for how long & quite enjoysitting about in camp again, as wehad rather a hard time during theoperations. We go for a swim almostevery day, it is only about 200yards to the sea & the water is becomingnice & warm now. The only troubleis that an old Roman causeway runs along the beach for the mostpart a good deal broken up & itis only where there are gaps in it thatit is comfortable to go in on accountof cutting ones feet on the rocks.Now where these gaps are everyonegoes in & so everyone undresses inthe same place & as most or a goodnumber of the men have a few lice onthem the risks are great as I foundto my cost the other day when Idiscovered a louse on my shirt. It'sthe first time I have found one onme since I've been in the militaryso I think I'm very lucky, butsince then I have undergone athorough disinfection & feel lesscreepy than I did when I sawit first. I went over the other daywith the Colonel to see Major now ColonelWhite who was with us & has now chargeof another Ambulance & they persuadedme to stay to dinner & have a little gameof cards afterwards. I got homeabout 10.45p.m. & the first thingthat greeted me was an intimationthat I was to leave at 4 a.m. nextmorning with portion of the Ambulancewhich was accompanying part of theBrigade on outpost duty. Bad luckwasn't it? However after being up fora few minutes next morning I didn'tfeel any worse for it & we spent theday out in the front covering somepeople who were doing some work.A few Turks were sighted in thedistance & some shots exchangedbut that was all. The profusionof wild flowers in these districtsis marvellous, many of themjust like those in Australia. The whole ground underneath thegrass is covered with wild poppieseverlasting daisies dandelions,& numbers of others I don't knowthe names of, but everywhere onegoes they are as thick as can be.The weather is becoming perceptiblywarmer but has not so far nearlyapproached the heat of Serapeum& those other places on the canal.I had a letter from Bill Stewartthis week, you remember him I suppose,he tells me he is in England in theInfantry expecting to go to Franceshortly. How he got in with thoseeyes of his I can't imagine,he went through an officer'sschool but could not get acommission, finally came awayas a Sergeant which rank he had to drop when he reached Englandas a reinforcement as they always do,he is now a corporal & expectsto revert again when he joinshis battalion in France. Poorold Bill what a bad time hemust have as a Private in the InfantryNo more news my dear must closewith lots of love & a hug.fromYour loving son,Wilf.