Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 10 June 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 10.6.1917My dear mother,I was glad to hear that youwere spending a few days at Goulburn beforegoing home & would also like to hear of you spendingsome of the winter months with Mab. Just atpresent its rather warm here & a beastly duststorm blowing, coating everything thicklywith villainous dust. Since I last wroteI had to go down to Rafa to sortout a dump we had there & cleanthings up so I took my batmanwith me & rode down. I billetedmyself on Max Yuille once in thisAmbulance & now a Major in another& at present stationed near thedump in question with a portion ofhis Ambulance. Being the only officer there he was glad of company &instead of finishing up my job inone day I stayed three & found it quitea pleasant break. One of the chiefadvantages was that I did not have toget up at 3 a.m. to stand to arms as wedo here. That is one of the worst featuresof our life here at present - one thingI object to is getting up early & 3 a.m.is the dizzy limit. However we go tobed at 8 oclock so that helps alittle & I believe we only have a dayor two longer to do & then someoneelse takes a turn. While staying withYuille we went over to the sea fora swim - a walk of some three milesor so there & 3 miles back so we hada good afternoons exercise.We also went to dinner at theFlying Corps & heard of some ofthe experiences of the pilots. Theyare nearly all young fellows & havehad a very trying time lately. Irode back on the third day &stayed for lunch with anotherAmbulance on the way where I knowsome of the fellows. Had a verypleasant hour or two there. Weall know each other fairly well in thevarious Light Horse Ambulances & ifpassing call in & see each otheron the way. By the way, didyou ever receive that blank chequefr I signed & sent on to you?I sometimes think it wouldn'tbe half a bad plan to investone or two hundred pounds in someof the war loans as they offervery good interest far betterthan one can get in the bank, the only trouble being that it is tied upfor so long & one may need to useit later on. I believe my applicationfor leave to Cairo will be approved of& I should be able to go in afew days when our Colonel returns.The Colonel of this Ambulance got aD.S.O. out of the Birthday Honorsthis time in recognition of the workof the unit, so will be verypleased with himself.No more this time my dear, hopethe indigestion is well withmuch love to all & mother'sinvariable share fromher loving sonWilf.