Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 19 June 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 19.6.1916.My dear mother,We have had another mail thisweek but I had no luck but have not givenup hope yet as sometimes New South Wales mailcomes a little later than the South Australian asthis regiment is composed chiefly of men from there.Our boys returned safely from their littlestunt in the desert without seeing any ofthe enemy, though they rounded up about80 Bedouins men women & children while there.It surprised me very much at first tofind that there was any population atall in this desert, but yet our boys sawsome very fine fat sheep & goats awayout in the sandy wastes & indeed boughta sheep for 8/- or 10/- & enjoyed it too.The Bedouins are apparently nomadsliving in caves & holes in the ground,& their flocks graze on a peculiar desertgrass which is scattered in tufts atintervals over all the desert, though itis marvellous how it manages to growin such a place. Water is of course veryscarce, although you may remember that I told you once before when our regiment wasreturning from it's last expedition that therehad been a thunderstorm in the hills & a largevolume of water had come rushing down the"wady" or dry watercourse. This still remainedin pools along the wady in spite of the greatevaporation here & the remarkable fact is thatit did not soak away through the sand.But in that part of the desert the characterof the soil is a kind of clay with apparentlya good deal of lime in it which helps causesit to form a hard crust at the bottom ofthe pools which contains the water. Thepurpose of the expedition was to break up thiscrust & cause the water to drain away & also toempty wells which existed farther away so asto prevent the Turks from getting water suppliesthere if they wished to attack us. I mentioned oncebefore a very large well which was supposed tohave been dug by the Crusaders & containeda great deal of water. This also was emptiedby means of pumps. Se So I suppose theBedouins will now have to seek fresh fields& pastures new. It is interesting to notethat the character of the desert changesas one goes North towards the Meditteranean perhaps the best way to give you an ideawhere I mean would be to say about20 or 30 miles out from Port Said. I amtold that there, numerous palm trees& wells are scattered over the country, grassis more abundant & Bedouins more aplentiful, also the Turks are closer.Wesley & I had a pleasant little trip thisweek to that water I have mentioned beforeleaving here about 3 pm & taking tea withus. We had our swim & then our groomsmade a fire & boiled some tea in mess tins(not billies) & we had sardines, followedby tinned sausages & then tinned pineapple.So we had quite a decent spread even inthis inhospitable land. We came backin the moonlight & that is one thing Iwill say for this country, the moonlightnights are glorious. The light is muchmore powerful than in Australia & thedesert quickly cools after the scorchingheat of the sun under the influenceof a cool Northerly breeze from theMediterranean, so that it is delightfulriding at such a time. We hadChurch parade on Sunday about amile from here & we all rode over to it forming quite an impressive spectacle.The rest of the week has just gone inthe usual monotonous way. I oftenwish like you that the war would hurryup & finish as I would like to go back& see you again & the continualwaste of one's time is rather distressingStill we must continue with the waruntil Germany has had a thoroughwhipping & then home again with avengeance. Best of love toall the family not forgetting motherfromYour loving son,Wilf.