Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 25 January 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L.H. Regt.Heliopolis25.1.1916. My dear mother,It is only a fewdays since I wrote my lastletter to you but I must try &keep up the sequence. No more mailhas arrived since then, except localletters but we are getting mailsbeautifully here, as we now avoidLemnos & the Anzac beach whichI think must have accounted formany letters & parcels. I think I hadbeen to dinner with Gwen Evans whenI wrote you last, & went to see her off the next night, &forget if I told you that Imet there a man namedDr Jones who went to schoolwith the Hughes boys & was inthe same tennis club as StanleyErnest & Eileen Hughes. He alsoknew the place where fathergrandfather lived & wasquite interesting to talk to.He has recently obtained acommission in an Englishregiment, has been outhere for over twelve monthsbut only obtained his commissiona month ago. Since then Ihave led a very quiet lifefor the very obvious reasonthat until the next pay daywhich is today, money wasrather scarce (in the native language (mafish feluci)I have lived for the wholeweek on about 5/- or less which isa meritorious performance inEgypt where a step outsidethe door means money.So that I have little newsto tell you this time, havepaid several visits tohospital where several fellowsI know are ill. Dr Stephenis in bed, first had a badcold, then it settled in oneeye which has been verybad indeed, poor old chap,but he is on the mend now.We had a very nice ride some days ago throughMatorrhea where thewell is where Mary isreputed to have rested withJoseph on her way toEgypt. I think I describedit to you once before.We rode through thevillage on the main road &then turned off throughthe irrigated fields. Theseare still very beautiful,& now have youngcrops of wheat & barleygrowing, with patchesof broad beans, & wholefields of bersene whichis Egyptian clover &resembles lucerne, & forms excellent horse fodder beingused very largely for ourhorses. One fact whichseemed to me remarkableas we rode on this time wasthe entire absence of fences,we rode for miles throughthe fields & villages bysmall tracks withoutonce seeing a fence. Howthe donkeys & other animalsare kept away is a mysteryto me. The villages of coursehave mud walls & probably theanimals are penned in there,for as we passed through wecould see in some places animals occupying smallmud huts in the villagesapparently in conjunctionwith the human inhabitantsWe have had no word yetof moving on, some rumorssay that we will go to theSuez canal & help to garrisonit but no one knows yet& for the present we are stayinghere. If we do leave I willsend you a cable. Weighedagain recently & am now12 st 7lbs - disgusting isntit, my dear, I really muststop eating. Much loveto all the family & a doubleshare for mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.