Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 26 November 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 26.11.1917My dear mother,I am endeavouring to complete my account of the trip to you beforewriting other letters & am seizing the first opportunity of adding to my former account. SinceI wrote we had some more mail, papers mainly but I received two letters from youa few days ago. I wish I could be with you at present to help decide your choice of homebut can do nothing from here, only hope that you may be satisfactorily settled - I still thinkParsley Bay a good spot. I completed my account until our arrival at Hujwhere there was so much abandoned ammunition & the evacuation of wounded fromJemmama to Sheria. I left off just when I was chasing the Division into anunknown land in a motor Ambulance, without a map as I we had gone so far thatwe passed the scope of the one I had. However I struck Eastwards until I found theTurkish railway running from Sheria in a N. Easterly direction to El Tina where it joined theGaza line & from there it ran on to join the Jerusalem line at Junction Station.When I met it I turned North also as I knew the Division were to camp somewherenear it about 10 miles further North . At this period we passed through open rollingcountry intersected here & there by deep wadis, & dotted with mud villages.Large flocks of sheep & a few cows were grazing & some few miles Eastwere the hills among which lay Jerusalem. These hills looked veryrugged & uninviting. None of our troops were to be seen just here & wepushed on Northwards along the railway in the gathering darknessuntil we could go no further that night. By this time we hadcome into contact with some men of other Divisions but not ourown, so we decided to camp for the night. We made tea &afterwards turned in to bed - very tired indeed after a long & heavy day. Camped near by were a couple of sandcarts alsolooking for their unit. Next morning we set off at daybreak in searchof the DIvision & found them about 8 a.m. It was fortunate thatwe had stopped where we did on the previous night, as the placeI was trying to reach & where I was told the Division was to be, washeld not by our people at all, but possibly by the Turks.On my arrival I found our people at breakfast & I joined them witha will & afterwards reported what we had done to Col Dixon. He toldme then that another dressing station had been opened some sixmiles South from where we then were, on the previous day, at a spot calledHissi. Our trouble now was that we were so much farther from our base,& the camels which travel only very slowly were not leaving Sheria, aftertaking back their load of wounded from Jemmama, until the nextmorning & it was very problematical when they would arrive, as theymight have difficulty in finding us .We had only two ^motor Ambulancesleft also, so the task of getting our wounded & sick back wasexceptionally difficult. We hoped to get then away partially onsupply wagons returning but these did not come twice to the samespot & there was no continuous ah service backwards. Col Dixondecided however that we were now travelling N East & were nearingthe main road from Gaza to Jaffa along the coast & inthat case all our traffic supplies, sick wounded, etc wouldhave to be switched off from the route we had come, on to theNorthern route where there was a good road.His conclusion turned out later to be correct, but in the meantimewe were hopelessly stranded, as the Division expected to move on &then would be left in the 'blue' the Tent division of an Ambulancewith it's sick & wounded, without means of evacuation &without rations as once the Division moved on, no rationswould come that way.I've tried to draw a map but Jerusalemis too far South, but I'm trying to show thatthe line of evacuation via Huj from wherewe now were at Feluja was terribly extendedback to Shellal, whereas it was quite shortto get on to the good Northern wadi back to Gaza. You see we had attacked from the flank & driven right in &so were now near this Northern road along which other troopswere advancing who had taken Gaza & along which supplies wereeasy & also sick evacuations.However in the end we decided to bring up our sick & wounded fromHissi to Feluja where we then were & give up the idea of sendingthem back to Feluja & then to the Northern road. So I set off to Hissi withthe two motor Ambulances expecting to find there only 8 or 10 sick.But on my arrival I found 40 sick & wounded & Turks included soit seemed a hopeless impossibility to move them up to Feluja. Somesick horses however were going back to euf Sheria & passing aplace called Amiedat where I had heard there was a dressing stationas a link in the chain so I put some men who were only sufferingfrom septic sores which are rather prevalent here & sent them off.I returned to Col Dixon & we talked it over again & finally decided toborrow some riding horses to bring up the rest & send a few sandcartsdown for the worst cases, & in the end we got the lot up to Felujathat night. All well so far but sick were coming in fast, asmen were now getting worn out & a good deal of diarrhoea & septicsores, & our total soon reached a hundred.We heard next morning that some supply lorries were coming out & thatwe could evacuate by this means & I got into touch with thefellow in charge & he told me that he could not say definitelywhen he would come to, but it would be either one of two placeswhich depended on whether he could cross a certain wadi or not. So I said very well, I will move to the first of thesetwo places & you can let me know if you are not coming there &I will move to the second. So I moved all my patients by meansof the limited transport at my disposal, several trips beingmade to do it & just as we were fixed up, a message cameto say that he could not come to that spot & wouldI move another couple of miles to the other. It was heartbreakingbut had to be done & so we moved off again,& finally settled in the new place. That evening the Turksmade a heavy counter-attack on our Division & in greatstrength & after a severe struggle were driven off with heavyloss. Of course this fighting meant a certain number of casualtysto us also & these came in at dusk & after darkness set in &our people were very busy, as they had to do an amputation& one or two other urgent operations.No supply lorries turned up & they had been diverted to anotherspot altogether, after all the trouble I had taken to goto their unloading spot. Fortunately, however, thecamels we had sent back to Sheria from Jemmamahad turned up & we had some means of transport.So I also heard that one of our mobile Receiving Stationsto which we evacuated had been opened on the mainNorthern road some ten miles distant from where wethen were, & this was very joyful news, as we nowhad some place not far away to evacuate to.So I set off in the early morning with the cars &the camels following & we cleared all our patientsthat day to out very great relief, packed up our Tent Divisions & moved off to join the Division again.During this particular day & the next the Infantry & some of the othermounted troops had some hard fighting ending eventually in thecapture of Jerusalem Junction Station as you will have read.This was most important as it cut Jerusalem off from railwaycommunication & it now had to depend on road transport.On our way up we passed many interesting things - one aerodromeI saw which the Turks had destroyed, with the remains ofthree aeroplanes in it which they had been compelled toburn. At El Tira, the junction of the Gaza & Sheria railwaylines there was a huge ordinance & engineering store withall kinds of equipment. For the next two or three days westayed about this part & then pushed on into Junction Stationitself the day after it's capture. It is a typical militarydepot. The country previously had been beautiful undulatingland, dotted with pretty villages every two or three miles& even at this season of the year containing the remains ofold crops. The soil seemed magnificent but the oldprimitive wooden plough is still used & the combinationof a donkey & ox, or camel & ox as a means oftraction seemed to us rather incongruous. The villagesall seemed prosperous & each contained a certain amount of stores ofgrain & tibbin. There were a h certain number of flocks but theTurks had removed all horses & animals suitable for transport.Strangely enough there are a number of green trees to be seenintermingled with olive & sycamore which are so typical of the Holy Land. The inhabitants are mainly Bedouin &Arab & look very much the same as the pictures inillustrated Bibles I don't think they have changedmuch since the days of Adam. There is however asprinking of Jews who have villages of their own very neat& tidy they are too & red tiled in contrast to the mud -roofs of the native villages. Oranges are in abundance -Jaffa is as you know famous for them & we pay at the rateof 6 for a piastre (2d) the correct & usual price is though,about 50 for 1/- but they soon become cunning & charge apiastre each if they can obtain it.I was commencing to describe Junction Station when I was ledastray into a description of the country before it. To continue,Junction is among the foothills of the mountains of Judaea& having been a military centre is bare of vegetation & thetown consisted of red tiled oblong barracks painted white for themost part. A fine station, two storied, however had been recentlybuilt & a splendid residence for the stationmaster, they hada big pumping plant & a fountain in the centre. There werelarge stores of tibbin & grain, & flour which they had leftin their haste. We immediately made away with some of theirflour which is very coarse & makes a very dark heavybread, but it proved useful for porridge as wehad run out of that kind of store in our wanderings& were ready to seize anything.The town was very dirty & smelt badly as fighting had been fierce about it & numerous dead animals lay around.The Germans & Turks evidently did not anticipate leaving it as verynumerous buildings were in process of construction, railwaylines were being laid down & at one place there was a largenumber of huge pits dug into the ground & covered withsleepers & earth which were evidently meant for the storageof ammunition. New railway lines had been laid to feedthese also, & there were also a lot of light Decauvillelines with rolling stock for it also. The main Turkish railwaygauge is one metre which is the usual German size & thesleepers are all iron & not wooden as we always see.The bridge at Junction Station was in a sad stateafter some charges of high explosive.There was a Turkish hospital there also & very dirty oneat that, full of wounded & with a medical staff of threeor four doctors. The whole place was so filthy that it waslater burnt to the ground when all the wounded hadbeen evacuated.Later.We spent some days in the vicinity of Junction Station having now reachedthe edge of the hills where it is very difficult for cavalry to work.During this time the Turks were being gradually driven back to Jerusalemby other troops. After this we went back for a spell to a village some littledistance back where we had a very pleasant few days. I took advantageof this to go back in a motor Ambulance to our base, where I arrangedfor the collection of drugs, stretchers dressings new Ambulance wagons torepair damaged ones for our various Ambulances. It took the main part of three days to do this. I got a few canteen stores &some articles from our dump for Col Dixon & myself & a stationarybox containing our office gear. It was rather pleasant being inthe semi civilization of standing camps again after our ratherrough life in the open line during the previous month.A day or two after my return we pushed out again & are now veryunsettled once more, never knowing where or when we may move.There has been a commendable amount ofTwo days laterI forgot what I intended to say in that last sentence - I was interrupted &am trying again. We have moved some miles again since I last wroteOur last camp was in the vicinity of one of the prettiest little villagesI have ever seen. It is a Jewish settlement & has well laid out streetswith trees in them, red tiled villas frequently surrounded by hedges& the whole countryside around is beautiful, for the most part covered with orchards or vineyards. Duty one way caused me toride between this village & a larger town some 5 miles away whichI must not mention & the way led through lanes bordered oneither side by thick hedges of what seemed to me wattle justcoming into flower, but it is said to be mimosa, and on either sidewere huge orchards & vineyards which were just beginning toshow their young green leaves, & beyond were the spires of thetown I was going to & which was surrounded by trees of adarker color to those around me & beyond & not far away thehills of Judaea. In this city was born Joseph of Aramitheaso you may be able to place it. A hospital there occupiedthe same building which Napoleon used for his sick &which was originally build by Richard Coeur de Lion on hiscrusades. So we are really in the Holy Land with a vengeancenow my dear & it is a beautiful country indeed &the climate at present is all that can be desiredsave when it rains - when it is abominable. It rainedheavily on two successive night & blew in additionwith the result that the first night our bivouac blew over & wecouldn't fix it up again & the second night a puddle ofwater formed in the middle of where we were to sleep.However, these are some of the small discomforts of campaigning &I had to laugh one of these evenings when we were all wrappedup in our greatcoats & trying to devour our meal as quicklyas we could in the standing posture as it was too wet tosit down, & all bolting our food so as to get back quicklyto the small shelter we had. Still our sleeping bags arefine things & I have slept dry in spite of all the abovedisadvantages so far. I think this completes my accountof our wanderings up to date & as I cannot hope to senda separate account to all members of the family Ihope you will send it round & this to the lotYour Xmas billy has arrived safe & sound, mydear at a most propitious time & is being eatenby degrees in the Promised Land with great appreciation.I put some of the cake on the table & all membersof the mess testified to it's excellence & sent a heartyvote of thanks, particularly Capt Jackson amiddle aged scotchman & a sollictor in privatelife who is very fond of a piece of good poundcake.Will close now with love to all & a little extra bitfor mother fromHer loving sonWilf.Finished on 2.12.1917Merry Xmas my dear.Keep this small account specially for me, my dear.