Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 28 July 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: France Nationality: Australian Text: 28.7.1918. My dear mother, Two welcome letters from you arrived todaydated May 27th & June 1st I was very grieved indeed tohear that you had not received letters from me recentlythis being due to your change in address as some wouldbe addressed to Candelo, some to that place at Vaucleusewhere you were for a while & some to North Sydney, sono wonder they have gone astray. I only hope thatmy letter about our stunt to El Salt reachedyou as it was a very interesting little operationup there & I should be sorry if that letter wentastray as it was a fairly long one. I am alsorather sorry my dear, to note between the lines thatyou are a wee bit lonely & not too well & thatconfirms me in my intention of applying fortransport duty on those grounds. I have beentrying to make up my mind to do it for a longwhile but can never quite decide to give upthe business out here, much as I hate it &have hated it. But, when we have finished ourturn in this valley for in a couple of weeks timeI will do so, though at present the supply ofmedical officers out here is on the short side.But I know what a joy it would be for youto see me again (to say nothing of myself!!) so I'llhave to make a shot at it, though it maytake some little time after I apply. Please don'tworry about sending parcels, my dear, they are onlyextra expense to you now & you can ill affordit under present conditions so please dontworry about it at all as we can get most thingsin canteens. I think in my last letter Imentioned to you my trip to Hebron from Bethlehem& on coming down to the Jordon valley again.Although it's very hot I don't mind it a bitthis time, I think my trip away bucked meup no end & I'm as fit as can be. Lastweek didn't seem very hot but the averagefor the days of the week was 105 so you cansee it was fairly warm & it didn't come downbelow 70 at night. Yesterday was fairlyhot 114, but we get used to it & I didn'tfeel it a scrap - we were out all afternoonchasing mosquitos, as we say, or to be exactlooking for their hiding places so as toexterminate them. We found a new place outbeyond our barbed wire where out patrolsgo out to & get very much bitten at night,& we discovered the source of the breeding& can remedy it quite readily.We went out by motor car part of the wayand the rest of it we rode. The previous daywe went up the Wadi Mellabah where wedid so much work last time & found itvery satisfactory on the whole. Things arevery quiet just at present, since the Turks were sobadly biffed when they attacked recently, &there is only occasional shelling nowadays& an occasional hostile aeroplane comes over& has a look at us. Col Dixon's boat gotaway so sharp to time that the letter I wrotehim giving him your address didn't catchhim & I'm very disappointed as I don'tknow his address in Australia & he willbe there before you get this, on a hospital boat- no names mentioned. He intends comingback again, I believe - I'm afraid my troublewould be that if I once got to Australia Iwouldn't feel like moving off again.I have very little news to tell you this time, mydear, & hope I'm not boring you stiff as theboys say, but as you will know by this timeour life in camp is always very much thesame routine unless active operations arein progress. We seem to have got the Germanspipped in France at last & I think it'sonly a matter of time until we have themcompletely settled - time of course is the nuisance. Turkey must be feeling a bit sick too,I fancy & I think half their soldiers woulddesert to us if they hadn't been told thatthey would be killed if taken prisoner & the poorbeggars are always surprised when our fellows givethem cigarettes & food when they are captured.No more news my dear. I do hope youare feeling fit. Best of love & a very large hugfromYour loving son,Wilf.