Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 24 February 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse Regt.,24. 2. 1916.My dear mother,I forget whether I had received yourtwo letters when I wrote last, but think I had. Sincethen I have had one from Harry & one from Ern & Alicewhich were very welcome indeed. We are still joggingalong here but word has come to hand this weekthat we are to move to. Gallipoli the Canal in afew days time. I think the object is to get the troopsaway from Cairo & to do a little patrol work down thereIt will probably be fairly warm & sandy but on thewhole not such a bad place. I have been fairly busyduring the last day or two buying enamel plates & cupsfor the mess & have found it rather a big task but it isalmost finished now. We are packing the things in anice wicker basket which I have bought & willcontain them very nicely. We I think I told you lastweek that we were going to the Barage & we quiteenjoyed the trip. I had to appear at a court-martial on the day that the others left, so. I stayeduntil they some hours after their departure & followedthem with my groom. We had a much more pleasant trip than we should have had with theBrigade as we were able to go at our ownpace, where as the Brigade went along ata very slow monotonous rate. We took lunchwith us & halted by the roadside under theshade of a tree, watered our horses in a smallcanal, bought them some greenstuff from anative near by & made short work of ourown sandwiches & oranges. The ride was avery pretty one, but very similar to those I haveso frequently described to you - level green fieldson either side intersected by small irrigationcanals, with cattle grazing in some places &small herds of goats shepherded by childrento prevent them going on the young cropsoccasional clumps of palms scattered overthe landscape & the inevitable mud villages.We accomplished the 23 miles in less thanfour hours & found that the Brigade hadonly just fed & watered their horses & themselveswhen we arrived. We went for a stroll roundthe gardens after this, then I looked roundthe lines to see that they were being kept properlyclean & finally had tea. After this we smoked& talked & went to bed. The Colonel, MajorBarlow (a dear old chap who has left us to takecharge of the 2nd Regiment, Captain Bailey - theAdjutant - & myself had our sleeping bagsarranged round one tree & in we got & feltthoroughly happy. It was a glorious moonlightnight we found it thoroughly enjoyeable tolie on the green grass & look round on the treesaround which were such a contrast to the sandhere on which we usually look. I said to the Colonelthat there was only another place in the world whereI would prefer to be at that moment & that washome. I slept in a magnificent fashion &woke next morning to hear the birds chirrupingamong the trees & felt quite as if I were inAustralia. We rose early had breakfast, fellin & marched off. It was a splendid cavalcadeextending for about 1 miles & made quite animpression on the populace of Cairo as wemarched through the city on our way home.The journey back occupied some 7 hours so wewere all glad to be out of the saddle, thoughthe trip was rendered much less monotonousby occasional rests, & walking on foot fora quarter of an hour occasionally. Themedical cart distinguished itself on severaloccasions as it was drawn by two mules one ofwhom shied frequently, on once with disastrous effects as it overturned the cart into a ditchsome twelve feet deep. The driver was underneathbut fortunately the cart fell all round himwithout injuring him at all. We had aninteresting trip last Sunday as we set outto go the Sakkhara Pyramids but unfortunatelywent to the wrong station - there are only twoin Cairo - & found that we were too late to goto the other station in time for the train. Howeverwe were told that this train would take ussomewhere near the placed we wished to goso we embarked on it. On alighting wefound however that we had to walk fivemiles to get a boat over the canal Nile whichwe did & when we had crossed foundthere were no donkeys to tall within sixmiles to take us over the desert to the Pyramidsso we gave it up in disgust, found a placewhich was a kind of general store & hotel,& there purchased some biscuits bread cheesebeer lemonade b & nuts & set to work on ourlunch with great relish. Five of us were inthe party Major Parsons Captain Sukmann nRaglas & Bailey & myself - Dr Wesley was unableto come. After lunch we saw a huge sugarrefinery nearby & decided to explore it. We could not see the manager for some timehowever & when we did see him he could not give uspermission to see the factory unless we had a passfrom the city office. However he gave us coffee &cigarettes though he was unable to speak aword of English, as the company is a Frenchone & most of the higher employees are f French.However I mustered up all my knowledge ofFrench which is not at present very great &managed to exchange a few ideas withhim to the great admiration & envy of theremainder of the party who were quite unableto talk f French at all. He showed us samplesof the sugar & grew very affable indeed.The factory employs 700 men, the majoritybeing natives with a few French & Italiansover them & draws its sugar from the upperNile where several factories prepare thesugar to a certain extent & then send ithere for refining it being the only refiningplace in Egypt. At the end the old manbrought out a photograph which proved tobe his son's grave in France, an only childof 21 years of age & the poor old mans eyesfilled with tears making me feel quite sadfor him. It was very pathetic & we did what we could to express our sympathy.He warmly asked us to come again afterobtaining passes from Cairo & we promisedto do so & see all the factory. I called intoday at the Davies & Bryans to saygoodbye before going away & hadafternoon tea there between my turns ofshopping. / Must close now as myfingers are beginning to ache withbest love to all the members of thefamily & a double share for motherfromHer loving son,Wilf. Am sending you the phote of Cousin Gwen& myself - it does not flatter the poorgirl - she really never looks like shedoes in the picture.Look quite romantic doesn't it?