Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 5 April 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: NATIONAL HOTELP. HERGEL Prop.CAIRO, April 5th 1916.My dear mother,Just a few linesto tell you that I am on leavefor three days at present & amspending them in this city.Wesley was unable to get offat the same time so I hadto come up by myself. HoweverI found one of the medicosfrom our ambulance atthe station & we came heretogether & he persuaded me tostay at this hotel thoughI originally intended togo to the Continental. Itis quite a good place to stay at, not quite as large asShepheards or the Continental& better for that reason. Thechaplain or padr from ourBrigade is here also & oneor two other men I know.Unfortunately most of thefellows I know are not inCairo at present & I missthem very much, find itquite dead. Yesterdaymorning I did quite alot of shopping mostly forother people as I was loadedwith commissions. In theafternoon I betook myselfto one of the AuxiliaryHospitals & met a coupleof fellows I knew, thento No iii Australian General(not No I where I used to be) & saw some more people & in theprocess had two afternoonteas . Then I came backhere for dinner & afterwardswent to the Davies Bryansto make a call. Found themall at home & cordial asusual, they told me thatGwen Evans had returnedto England but that herbrother John Evans wasstill with his ambulancein Egypt. Mrs Bryan wishesto return to England herselfbefore the summer sets in &Mr Bryan also would liketo go if he could leave thebusiness though he is shorthandedat present, but theyare a little scared ofsubmarines & have not quite determined what to do.This morning my brother medico& myself paid a visit to thecitadel & the fine mosque therethen returned to do moreshopping, met two nurseshe knew & had morning teawith them & then he went offon a flying trip to Alexandria.But l must close hurriedlymy dear as Jim Wileyhas just arrived & he isdining with me here sogoodbye with lots oflove from,Wilf.