Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 4 May 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: W. Evans9th L.H. Regiment.4.5.1916My dear mother,Once again I commence a letter toyou in this same old spot with practically nonews to tell you. Life continues to go on from dayto day in the same monotonous way withpractically no variation. I have my usual sickparades in the morning, occasional visits toour outlying posts & the rest of the time is spentlargely in reading. After dinner at night Ivery often sit with Colonel Arnott outside hishut smoking & talking till it is time to retireHe is a very well read man & our conversationoften turns on the books we have read or the placeshe has seen & sometimes on dear old Sydney.The young Turk has not yet favored us with avisit, though we have partially expected himto present us with his card for some time past.Wesley comes out & visits me occasionally &I have been in to him to dinner a couple oftimes this week. There is a Catholic chaplainattached to his regiment who is a very finechap & we have often very interesting discussion with him always avoiding debatable ground.We were discussing last night the effect ofthe war on the youth of our day & I'mafraid that we agreed, in spite of variousarticles which are often published to theeffect that it will have very good influence,that it would be the reverse from whatwe have ourselves observed. However, thatremains to be seen. I had a visit this weekfrom Welsh & Powell of the 0th F a FieldAmbulance whom you will remember we visitedsome week or two ago & we rode about takingsome snaps which they were anxious to obtain.But there is very little here to make a decentpicture so I've not been taking any lately &of course we are not allowed to send anywhich may have military significance. Isincerely hope my dear, that your healthis better & that you will take that holidaysoon. I am quite well & trotting abouta good deal as usual. Wish I hadsome news, my dear, as I haven'tmust end this terribly short scrawlwith the best of love to all & mother's usualshare fromHer loving son,Wilf.