Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 2 October 1915 Location: On board Seang Choon near Island of Rhodes Nationality: Australian Text: The splashes are by no meanstears merely drops of water froma glass(1)On board Seang ChoonNear Island of Rhodes 2.10.1915My dear mother,I am writing again within a few days of my lastletter also written aboard this ship before leaving Alexandria which Ifear may not have reached you as we omitted to get the officialstamp on it before posting & it may not go through or else be delayedby censor. I hope sincerely that you did receive it as I gave therein mymain reasons for coming here. We have had a delightful trip so far, the seais as calm as a mill pond, the ships a good one & it's officers splendidfellows. We left Alexandria about twelve o'clock yesterday & came straightout to sea. I don't think I gave you my impressions of that city in thebrief time I spent there - it appeared much more of an Englishtype than Cairo. the streets are excessively narrow as in allEastern towns, apparently about half the width of Pitt street &the houses usually about 4 stories in height. Many more peoplespeak English than in Cairo, & European dress is more generallyworn, the typical tarboosk, or little round red cap ofthe Egyptian native is not nearly so much in evidence.The city is situated absolutely on the sea, part of it beingon the ocean - the hotel where we stayed was situatedpractically on the ocean beach, & part of the cityresting on the harbor not far away - the harborbeing formed by a kind of peninsula with a breakwateradded to it, the entrance being only narrow &protected from submarine craft by defences which I suppose I must not attempt to describe.The harbor is not a very large one, but appears wellprotected & is almost full of ships of all kinds.Most of the largest of I think this is censorableso I will cut it out. I did not tell you that we arrivedabout four oclock at Alexandria reported to the General& were told to embark that night - I managed toenquire of the whereabouts of our cousin Major John Evans& found that he was at Suvla Bay at Gallipoli. Weproceeded leisurely to the wharf & drove roundfor a while without finding the ship amongstmany & were overtaken by a despatch rider whotold us that she was just about leaving & thatwe should hurry back & a fast [[pimace?]] would bewaiting for us. We did so, found no [[pimace?]],but abused many niggers & eventually hireda sailing boat and sailed round the harborin search of the ship & at last found her.I think I told you this before. This shipis a hospital boat purely for Indians & isrun by members of the Indian MedicalService many of whom have been in Indiafor many years. There is a Colonel, Major,Captain, Lieutenant, very nice fellows allof them. We have a very distinguished person aboard in Sir Victor Thorsley, one of the world'sauthorities in brain surgery & of whom I had readin my text books. He is such a nice man notone of those who stands on his dignity & feelsthat he is a big man but he talks to usall easily & without assumption of superiority.The food on board is excellent & she has agood sitting room on the boat deck & adining room on the promenade deck &a very comfortable spot to sit out on.The hold is turned into a hospital & a longline of beds stretches from stern to sternshe has also accommodation for woundedabove this & on the decks & a nice littleoperating theatre. She can accommodate500 if necessary. We expect to arrive atLemnos Island tomorrow at middaywhich is the base for operations on Gallipoli& there we report to the A.D.M.S (Assistant Director ofMedical Services) & will probably proceed to Anzak.We have been in sight of Islands today for the mostpart, if you look at a map you will seeislands dotted along Asia Minor - Rhodes nearwhich a boat was torpedoed, Carpathos &numerous others. Talking of maps remindsme of how we looked at a map before I left & you were easy only when you saw what adistance Egypt was from the fighting. It seems strangethat I should willingly go from the safety ofEgypt to Gallipoli & cause you so much anxietywhen I would wish to shield & protect you from it.But it is one's highest obligation in life to do hisduty & it is undoubtedly known it is mine to go overhere. I hope you receive my other letter in which Iexplained my reasons fully. But briefly I couldnot stay in Egypt when men are wanted at Gallipolito help the sick & wounded there because there issome slight risk - the latter should be agreater incentive to going. Old & married menshould not be expected to go. The risk ismoreover not very great, few Australianmedicos have been injured. But no matterwhat happens, I hope to have done myduty & that will compensate you my dear forall the years of selfsacrifice & devotion youhave spent on me & for which I couldnever thank you sufficiently, except perhapsby a love that can only be quenched by deathBut my dear I feel that all is going to be well.I am in God's hands & He will guard me foryour sake & bring me safely back to you again.My very best love to all & specially to mother fromHer loving son, Wilf.