Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 18 February 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 18.2.18My dear mother,I didn't get a chance to write yesterday so amtrying to scratch off a few lines now before dinner. I leave tonightfor Moasca for a fortnight's military school, & don't expectto have a very good time as I understand that they keep the boysfairly busy. I have had a fairly strenuous week here duringCol Dixon's absence on leave, but he returns tomorrow morning totake over. Jack wrote me a few lines this week - the first Ihave had from him for a month or two & he seems in goodspirits & well, but is quite out of my reach just at present& I expect will remain so for a few weeks more until wemove again. I have been out visiting once or twice lastweek, one night I was invited to dine at one of theYeomanry Regiments by their medico. All the Yeomanrywere at one time composed of the pick of the Englishcounty families & a good number of their originals stillremain with them, so that it is by the usual thing tomeet several titled people in the Regiment. The mess Iwas invited to was quite a small one consisting only of theColonel, Signal officer, medico & one of the squadronleaders. They were all very decent indeed & numbered one"Lord" in the party, but ofe one never quite breaks the crustin one evening, & however pleasant the British officers are, &they usually are pleasant, we naturally feel more at home among our own Regiments. Still I spent an enjoyeableevening though a quiet one.A couple of nights later, Murray Jones - the Veterinarystaff officer here & I went over to the 9th Regtto dine & the evening was a great contrast. They hada big Regimental mess including in it all the 26 officersin the Regiment & there were several visitors in additionto us including some from the 3rd Field Ambulance.They had a gramophone going & some of the youngermembers got up & danced to the tunes, giving exhibitionof Tangos twosteps & so on, then they started chorussinging led by a fellow with a very decent voiceso that we had quite a rollicking evening.They practiced "trench raids" too, three fellows satthemselves on a settee made of sandbags filled up- built into the form of a couch, & challengedthe others to dislodge them. A tremendousscramble ensued & they all ended up very hot& perspiring. The evening was a very marked contrastto the previous one. Last night a couple of the sameofficers came over here to dinner - Major Daly & Macdonald,the latter who was wounded at Rafa & brought back by ourAmbulance when I was there was invalided home & hasreturned again. We had a quiet game of cards &amused them in that way, with the aid of a gramophonein addition. Murray Jones is a splendid fellow to entertainanyone, he is so full of spirits & talk & can go onindefinitely talking away & acting with it, so that we experienced no difficulty in keeping the party amused. I'm taking all sorts of furniture with me downto Moasca for a fortnight - sort of travelling circus,camp stretcher & mattress & everything complete. Thetrains out here have improved very much in thelast few months & one can get a fairly comfortableplace to sleep, or endeavour to sleep in, on the tripIm I often wonder how you are progressing in orabout Sydney & whether you have fixed on aspot yet. Perhaps it will not be necessary tobuild a new place; you might find something tosuit you already built & fairly cheap. However I'ma useless beggar as I am though I would verymuch like to have a hand in the pie.News is scarce again my dear so must closewith lots of love to allfromYour loving sonWilf.