Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 6 December 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 6. 12. 1916.My dear Harry & LindaYour welcome notescame safely to hand this mail followedin a day or two by the papers & parcelof note paper which is very acceptable,indeed, Many thanks old chooks' I amnow awaiting Linda's "colic producer"with great expectations & am sure itwill give me great "stomach" for our nextscrap with the Turks which will occur when you see it in the papers,for I fear me that I would infringe thecensorship regulations if I said anymore.You mentioned Mr Gillanders of the Y.M.C.A.in your letter - I must really pay atribute to the work that the Association hasdone during this war, it has certainly outdistancedall the churches & won fo the respect[*P.S I fear that my prospects getting any of those littleitems from Linda for foreign missions are poor as we wereunexpectedly sent out again sooner than I thought & I'm afraidI wont be in Cairo again for some time*] & sympathy of all the men out here. Whenevercamps are found , there y one will also findY M C A tents Even here in close proximityto the Turks where we might at any time haveto pick up our bundles & move forward orbackward in an hurry, a Y M C A tent hasbeen put up during the last day or two, where themen can purchase a few things & write theirletters & so on. While in our rest camp theman in charge of it organised footballmatches in which great interest was taken. Onthe other hand, little interest is taken by themen in the usual denominational churches &though some of the padrs are popular (one forinstance who left us some three months ago Collickby name from Koolgardie was beloved by everyone)the men's usual attitude is that they wish thepadr wasn't here so that they would notbe dragged off to church parade. Andcontrary to what we all anticipated, theimminence of death & uncertainty of life onactive service does not make men think more of religion & it's consolations. Do notthink for a moment that I am attemptingto decry the church or it's pastors whohave come out here, but that is theactual state of affairs Military servicedoes not tend to make a man morereligious but on the contrary makes manyforget the influences under which they livedtheir former ideals & has in an alarmingnumber of cases an discouraging undermining influence ontheir morals. You may notice this yourselfin home camps & may imagine how muchgreater it is when men are quite removedfrom all their former influences. It wasindeed my pal "Pete" Graham who waskilled in France - he was hit in thearm & later developed gas gangrene &succumbed - poor old Peter he was a finechap & one of our smartest men & I believean only child. I fear that my chances of picking up Beatty's messages in Cairo arevery small as I fear we are doomed to thedesert for quite a long time now. (I'm botheredif the Y M C A haven't brought out a harmoniumor something, as the strains of some hymn arenow being wafted over the desert from their tentin the moonlight). Glad to hear that Linda'shealth is improving & that she is quite herself again,I suppose she will be a portly old thing (!) whenI return. I'm getting quite a corporation now,I fear that I will be the only member of thefamily to develop an excess of abdominal fatin my maturer years. Still I fancy Linmay become a second Mrs Bob Jardine if shegoes on as she has begun & will come alongpalpating & panting "O my gracious" & trying topalm young Joyce on to some respectablefamily of young men. After this I thinkI'd better close or I may tie myselfin a knot so cheer o! my worthy oldcoupleYour loving brotherWilf.