Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 19 January 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 19.1.1918.My dear mother,Your letter dated 27/11/1917 arrived a fewdays ago, after one dated Dec 5th. but both quiterecent - apparently our mails are running directagain. Very strange that a form of commissionshould arrive from the War Office at this stage & Iwonder how it happened possibly owing to staffappointment. You thought I might be enjoyingmyself in England by this time - far from it, mydear, though I understand it is much easierto obtain leave there than to Australia, strange tosay. But though I should very much like to gothe trouble is that it might stand in one's wayof going to Australia at all later on, so I amnot attempting it. In any case I believe,good & sufficient reasons, apart from lengthof service, & supported by documentary evidence must be given to go to either place.I feel quite distressed about your possible troublesin settling on a home & wish I could giveyou help or advice, but it is so difficulthere to do so. Building is doubtless veryexpensive just now & it rather makes onewonder if a place could not be bought orrented more advantageously just at presentparticularly as you do not wish to settleyourself down absolutely just yet.Don't for goodness sake though settle ina crowded suburb or you will stifle.I have had rather a busy week thistime, as it has been necessary to rideround a good deal & stir people up abouttheir sanitation owing to our settling downfor a period in a standing camp. Alsowater has had to be watched closely& I had to condemn one place altogetherfrom which they were obtaining drinking water & which on examination proved to be absolutely unfit. Today we have been to asports meeting held by one of the Brigadeswhich reminded me rather of the old "shows"at home, as it consisted mainly of jumping& events of a similar kind, though of courseadapted to military conditions. For instanceit wasn't the best turned out buggy, butthe best turned out limber, & so on.The 10 best horses which had been out sincemobilization, also, was a good item & therewere some beauties probably the pick of theEnglish stables. One amusing item was thebest turned out camel, in one case withridden by a white man & in another a cacoletfor wounded led by a native Egyptian asthey always are. And it was a proudEgyptian with whom the Corps Commandershook hands as he did with all the winners of the other competitions.Memorial church service to be held tomorrow& everybody is to attend & in additionthe Corps Commander will be present.No more news this time, mother mine, therenever is much when in a standing campAm enclosing a note for CandeloKnitting Society just to buck themup a bit though all my stuff wasknitted by you.With very best of love to all &mother's usual share fromHer loving sonWilf.I really am getting horribly fat Send these to Ernplease - as usual -All well ErnHope you and yoursare. Leah here.Love H.It wasmy palJackreferred to This cameafter theone youhad - dated24th JanSend allthese toErn please& he canpost to Mab