Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 13 July 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 13. 7. 16.My dear mother,I am a day or two latethis week in writing as something seemedto prevent me sending my usual lettereach day this week. The day after Ireceived your wrote my last note I receivedyour letter saying that you weregoing into hospital & needless tosay I feel anxious about you as Inever know how much you are telling& how much you conceal. I havefor some time past felt that you werenot well owing to the anxiety aboutmyself & the fact that you had beenfor so long in Candelo without goingaway. I do indeed hope thatit is nothing more than a nervousrun-down & that you will speedilybe returned to health under DrRennies able care. I am veryanxiously waiting for the next mail& your letter. You need be underno apprehension as regardsmy safety at present. as there as nothing doing here at all - I wishthere was a little more, as the monotony isworse than anything I think. The weatherduring the last few days has been ratheruncomfortably warm but I seem fairlywell acclimatized now & do not noticeit very much. I think I shall applyfor leave to Alexandria in a week or twobut would like to wait until Wesley isconvalescent enough to go there. Heshould be almost well enough now, butthe difficulty is to communicate withhim as letters to Cairo take a weekowing to delays in various quarters.Alexandria is a very pleasant placein summer as it is cool & there isgood bathing & tennis & also goodhotels. We all keep surprisingly wellhere, last month out of the wholeregiment none were sent on to basehospital which is rather extraordinary. I have not been away from campmuch since I last wrote to youas since Wesley's departure I don'tgo to railhead (that was censorable)to see him & don't go swimmingto the ___ However I rode in tosee the Ambulance people last week& may ride in again this afternoon& think I will go to the __ for aswim with one of our squadrons ina day or two as they go in almostevery day leaving early in themorning & returning in the evening.I must surely go to Alexandria orCairo soon as my stock of books isgetting low & I must fill up again.The shops there are very goodnow & one can get all that herequires which is a great comfort.We had a visit from two RedCross people this week, one namedPhillcox from Adelaide & oneEdginton from Manly, the latterhaving just come across & itwas pleasant to talk to onewho had just left Australia& could tell us the exactcondition of affairs there now.We put them up for a couple of days& they seemed to enjoy their run roundthis part of the country. We tookthem round the defences & sent themoff one day for a swim & they alsodid some business with me & are goingto send me all sorts of red crossstuff for my sick men which willbe very welcome. Sorry I have nointeresting news my dear - I hopeyou are quite yourself again, bestof love to all & a double sharefor mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.