Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 13 March 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse Regiment13. 3. 1916.My dear mother,I'm afraid that my letter this week will bevery uninteresting as a new set of censorship rules has justbeen compiled & are very strict so that I am unable totell you anything about the state of things here & verylittle of what we do - which is really very little. I havehad no letters from you for quite a time now though Iknow you have written but suppose that addressingthem to Ambulance Egypt only has delayed themsomewhat However I had one from Auntie Lily afew days ago, also a life from you & today a letter fromJack dated January 16th arrived & remarkable tosay one of those original letters of yours of July 1stlast year which has followed me all over theselands, & although it was so old it was pleasant toread. Still I am longing to hear how you are & ifyou & Mab are enjoying yourselves. The weather isgradually becoming warmer but is not unpleasantyet. By the way my dear I wish you would sendme an occasional "Bulletin" as we appreciate itsjokes out here although you may consider ourtastes depraved. I brought some literaturefrom Cairo with me & am at present readinga couple of Kingsley's works - "Ravenshoe" justnow & am quite enjoying it. Wesley & I arenow some miles apart & are unable to seeeach other as since I last wrote we havemoved to a different spot. We had a tripto Ismalia together however some days ago& spent a very enjoyeable day there. We weregoing to a European club which is in existencethere for lunch & dinner but were invitedto lunch by some fellows we knew at thehospital. We did some shopping in the morning& in the afternoon walked round some verypretty gardens with fine old trees & beautifulgrass & admired some old Egyptian sculpturework consisting of great slabs of stone withthree figures carved in it the centre one aking & on either hand goddesses. We hadafternoon tea with some nurses at the hospital& then drove in a garry to see some friendsin one of the clearing hospitals. ArchieCollins who was at Prince Alfred withus was there & we quite enjoyed our visit.He insisted on staying to dinner & afterwards had to depart very rapidly as time was limited,but we had a great confab about old times &enjoyed it. We are not blessed with a superabundanceof water here & I succeed in bathing myselfwith the aid of a sponge in about halfa pint. I continue in very good health & amin good spirits, have a few sick men to attendto & some sanitation to overlook whichoccupies the mornings. Then after lunch I have/a pipe & a book & read or doze until aboutfour o'clock when tea comes along. Otherwisemy dear I have practically no knewsto tell you for the reasons explainedabove. How time flies - it is almost ninemonths since I left Australia - I am nowbecoming quite an old soldier, & sincerely hopethat the war will be happily ended beforeanother similar period is passed & Ihappily meeting you at home again.Cheer up my dear all will yet be wellwith love & good wishes to all fromYour loving son,Wilf.