Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 20 January 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L.H. Regt.Racecourse Camp,Heliopolis,20.1.1916.[*Am sending thecheque for 100 in thisletter.(Which I placed on fixed deposittoday - March 2nd 1916.)to Wilfred (M.L.) Credit. in ComBank.*]My dear mother,You will probablyreceive this letter by the same mailas the last one which I had tofinish up in a hurry, & I will justcontinue where I left off two days ago.I think I told you that Cousin GwenEvans was in town so I thoughtit a fair thing to take the younglady out so last night met herat six o,clock in the & engaged atable at Shepheards Hotel fordinner - quite stylish don't you think?Dinner never takes place hereuntil nearly eight o'clock sowe went for a run round town& Gwen suggested that it would be rather fun to have our photostaken together by flashlightso off we toddled & had acheap photo taken. Then wewent to Shepheards had anice little dinner & a little driveafterwards along the Nile bymoonlight (very shocking my dear)& back to the National Hotelwhere she was staying at 10.15.So, my dear, I have been doingmy best to see & know whatI can of my English cousinswhile I have the chance, & reallyit isn't a bit hard to do whenthey are young & rather pretty.But please don't get alarmedmy dear, it's merely cousinly interest& nothing more. I think I told you that we went the previousnight to see the Davies Bryans& I saw the first little bit of realhome life since I left Australia.Last Sunday I went to ourchurch parade in the morningat 10 a.m. & it was a fine sightto see our Brigade drawn upon three sides of a hollow squarewith the Chaplain in the centre &in the march past afterwardsthey looked splendid. A bandhas been formed & they played -the hymns for us & a choir alsohad been started, though one hardlyrealized they were present as theymade very little noise. I did notenjoy the service much, as thesinging was poor, the chaplain'svoice heard with the greatestdifficulty & any reverent spirit was quickly dispelled when one sawsome of the fellows commence tosmoke & an officer go along& take their names. One couldhardly blame them as they heard little& found time hang heavily. Wesley & Iintended going in the evening to aChurch at Heliopolis but it proveda fiasco - merely a room with chair& tables crowded with men & nosign of a service when we passed.Last Saturday afternoon Wesley & Iwith McKenzie who is veterinary officerwith the 10th, went for quite a longride to the Tombs of the Khalifs nearCairo. We rode past the hospitalat Heliopolis then over the desert -through Abassieh where there arevery large barracks which werebuilt by Kitchener for the Army whichalways occupied Egypt.They constitute one of the largestbarracks in the world & are builtof stone with nice verandahsaround them & three stories high,& cover acres & acres of ground.We then came on the EgyptianArmy isd quarters, which & theirwe saw the black recruits beingdrilled. The Egyptian Army is drawnlargely from the Soudanese Ibelieve & they are very well trained &after serving for several years inthe Army they are used as policemenso that the Cairo police are a finebody of men & they are beautifullydressed. In the summer they areclothed in white with the usualred tarboosh on the head, & theiruniforms are always clean & neat.In the winter they wear a kind of dark serge uniform which looksvery well especially as the buttons &trappings are always highly polished.We watched for some time on Saturdaythe mounted recruits being trainedin horsemanship, vaulting on to theirhorses without stirrups, then sittingon their horses without stirrups & withtheir arms folded behind their backs& the horses trotting round a circleled by one man acting as guidewho had his reins & stirrups. Thenthey performed various arm exerciseswith their horses proceeding ata trot. After this we rode onfurther & chanced to pass aplace which was being decoratedfor Mahomets birthday which wason the morrow. Numerous largemarquies had been erected around a square in which somekind of performance was totake place & the marqueeswere beautifully fitted up withcarpets & chairs arrangedalong the walls - most of thembeing fine plush cushioned chairs- & hundreds of lamps gailydecorated were hanging fromthe roofs. The natives were hardat work decorating for the nextday. After this we at last cameto the Tombs of the Khalifs orCity of the Dead where therewere numbers of comparatively largebuildings stretching along bothsides of the road for some mileor two which enclosed the remainsof the old Khalifs. They are in fairlygood repair & as in most casesconstitute mosques as does almost every building which surrounds thedead. Of course they are not usednow. A great deal of excavationhas been done here & gruesomeremains frequently presented themselves,in one pile there were dozens ofskulls. We had quite a pleasantafternoon & returned with a good appetite.Today I received a parcel from Ern & Alice& a p Sydney Mail also, the formercontaining some edibles which Iwould have simply gloried in if Ihad received them at Gallipoliwhere every man who received aparcel was the envy of the restthough they were always shared.I must write & thank him forthem. By the way, I went tothe native bazaar the other day to get some things which Ihave long intended to send.I had quite an enjoyableafternoon bargaining - Ithink I told you I gotsome scent, then I indulgedin some brassware - one singlevase & a smaller pair, thena blouse length, & a silkshawl. Please take yourpick & then send one of theothers to the four other three differentfamilies. I got something forthe womenfolk only as Ithink they like things better thanthe men. I thought probably someof the brass work would suit youbest & I thought the smaller pair,& then the blouse length wouldgladden Mab's heart, & probablyLinda would agree with the shawl & Alice the single vase. Butyou please yourself. I hopethey arrive safely they arebeing sent by registered post,the brassowork is being sent by thedealer & I am sending the silkstomorrow. Hope you willlike them, they will be delayedby customs probably but weare exempted I believe butdon't be alarmed if they don'tarrive for a week or two afterthe letter. Much love toall fromYour loving son,Wilf.I hope you are well & notworrying my dear.