Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 15 November 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse Regiment,Anzac,November 15th 1915My dear mother,I am so glad to say that I had a mailyesterday containing two letters from you, one from Mab& one from Cedric Job. It was delightful to hear fromyou again after a break of seven weeks. Your letterswere dated 8th & 16th of September & had been re - addressedfrom Cairo. Reading the news of your doings, with Ern &Alice spending their holiday with you brought Candeloso near & all that it contains - I could so wellimagine you staying at home & Ern minding thenippers while the others went to the patriotic meeting inthe School of Arts, & I was glad to hear of your takingcare of yourself. We are dodging along here in muchthe same style as usual, making no attacks& receiving none, the men are for the most part engagedin improving the trenches & communications. Wereceived word last week to change our positionas some troops who had been away resting wereto take over our old spot & we were to go alittle lower down in place of some others. We wereall so comfortably settled down that the prospectof turning out & fixing ourselves up againwas very unpleasant but had to be done.The troops to relieve us arrived here one day & I took the medical officer into my dugout & fixed him up there & the others went anywhere- I think they all camped under the stars inwith their overcoats on. I am having a newdressing station fixed up on this positionbut it is not ready yet & I still occupythe old post in conjunction with theother chap who is a very decent fellow &we hold our sick parades alternately.It is rather awkward though & I shallbe glad when we move into our new quarters.We can still see the ocean but have not sucha fine view as we are lower down Thisweek Charley Wesley was sent up torelieve the medical officer of the 10thLight Horse who is away resting atLemnos & so is practically only 200yards away & you may imagine how pleasantit is to have him so conveniently situated. Yesterdaywe went for a walk down to the Ambulance together.There we met quite a number of fellows we knowwho were visiting Single who is at the Ambulanceat present. They were fellows who were at theUniversity at the same time as myself, McIntyre,Plant & McKenzie & we all had a fine old pow-wow,over cigarettes followed by afternoon tea.One of the men in the ambulance Captain White had interesting indeed to stand in such a commandingposition with a telescope & just look at the differentplaces, Turks British New Zealanders & Australianswith their interminable rows of trenches & bivouacswhere the men camp in the shelter of hills protectedfrom shell fire, the white tents of hospitalsin the open as the Turk is a clean fighterthen the sea & the ships therein. InSuvla Bay there are generally three Warships &a good number of transports. I received aletter this week from a cousin Gwen Evans ofwhom I heard many years ago (& now there isanother of the same name) who is working asa Red Cross helper with two hundredothers in Alexandria. She had contractedDiphtheria & was just up out of bed & feelingvery lonely, had been given my Cairo addressby Ernest Hughes before leaving England& wrote to me there at Cairo asking me to call &see her if I was in Alexandria.The letter was forwarded to me here & I feltvery sorry that I had missed seeing her& she would doubtless think me unkindfor not replying, but I did so from hereimmediately. I am still in good health& spirits I am thankful to say & mybelt feels tighter so I conclude that Iam gaining weight. This week some good cigarettes sent him, which hewas fortunate enough to receive safely & whicheverybody enjoyed after the issue cigarette whichwe receive. You remember me saying that I sentto Egypt for some books chocolates & tinned stuff.I received quite a nice lot of books & a letterfrom Stephen to whom I wrote (& who wrote toyou I think when I left Egypt) asking him to sendthese things, & he said that he had postedalso the chocolates & tinned stuffs, but alas! Ifear they are filling someone else's stomach.The pilfering which goes on in the post officeis frightful, some men receive parcels all rightbut if they are not very firmly done up & look quiteharmless (as if they contain nothing eatable) they easilygoe astray. Some fellows have them labelled Poison!or socks. The Department is doing it's best Ithink but so far it is not very successful. One ofthe positions we hold here is Tabletop from whichone of the best panoramic views of the position Peninsula isobtained. It commands the whole & more of that viewwhich I have already described to you as being seen fromTabletop & with a telescope the vessels in Suvla Bayshow out very distinctly & one can see the men walking abouton the shore near there & all the stream of traffick.Also one can pick up the Red Cross Flag over thewhite tents of the field hospitals there in which possiblymy our cousin Majr. Evans may possibly be. It is very papers arrived for my predecessor - TatlerBystander & some Land & Waters which aresplendid & I quite enjoyed them. Hehad them sent from England. Sorry tosay that most of the papers you Harry & Ern sokindly sent have not reached me, onlyabout three or four in all. I still havemy vest pocket Kodac & am takingsome snaps which I hope will beinteresting when I am able to have them developed.One third of the whole of the Brigade havegone away to Lemnos to rest as they havebeen here all the time since May about 3 weeksafter the first landing & they were due for a spell& my batman went off though he was lothto go without me, but I sent him as he hadbeen here from the beginning. I have anothervery decent lad who wanted a rest fromtrench work, quite a decent chap, of goodfamily I think as his people own some stationor other in S. Australia. He likes being with meI think as he has easy work & is a friend ofthe Corporal in the dispensary with whom hehas his meals & he is trying to learn something ofA.M.C. work of which he seems very fond.I think my dear I have exhaustedpractically all the news I possess this time as day follows day in verysimilar fashion. Just at presentI can hear some big naval gunsbombarding away down towardsCape Helles, they have outbursts every now& again. Please send round toall the family with this letter myheartiest wishes for all success& prosperity in the New Year & fora happy reunion during it aftera successful ending to these troubledtimes Much love to all & a doubleshare to mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.