Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 22 March 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th LH. Regt.,22.3.1916.My dear mother,Since I last wrote you I am pleasedto say that I have received three of your letters readdressedfrom the Intermediate Base & you may guesshow pleased I was to receive them after so long aninterval. So Mab has been with you & I can well imaginehow glad you would be to see each other. We continue tolead our rather monotonous existence here, & myhealth continues good & my proportions to increaseThose trousers which I had made in Sydney beforeleaving find the task of encircling my slenderwaist almost impossible & the top buttons arein imminent danger of flying off & causing seriousbodily harm to any person or persons within range.Your letters showed the state of your feelings whenyou heard I was ill & how much I regretted notcabling earlier which I certainly would have donehad I thought the authorities would sendon such a trifling illness. It was very fortunatethat I asked if there were any letters for meor the cable might have lain at the hospitalfor a week or two as I had directed that anyletter for me there should be left till called for. I went over to see Wesley last week inthe midst of a blinding dust storm &Charles had rather a long face - he isnot very fond of this part of the country.However we managed to cheer each other up& he came over here to dinner on Sundaybut the trip rather tired his horse as it isabout eight miles over sand so I'm afraidwe won't see each other very often here. I do mylittle trip each day to see the sick in differentplaces & carry with me a small haversackwith a number of requisites with which Imanage to treat quite a number of ailments- it is really surprising what one can carry ina small space. This is a very sleepy climate,after lunch one feels as if it is almostimpossible to keep awake & I generallyyield to the feeling & have a doze or smoke.I had a small parcel today fromMrs Job containing some socks acouple of hankys, balaclava cap& writing paper & envelopes. I mustwrite & thank her - it has been verymuch delayed as all parcels are, asshe wrote me about a month ago saying she had posted it, or rather the letterreached me a month ago. The Church ofEngland padr paid us a visit last Sunday& I fixed him up some sleeping accommodationin my tent in the form of an ambulance stretcher& he brought his own blankets. He heldChurch service in the afternoon but hadforgotten to bring hymn sheets so the singingwas rather limited. He is a very decent fellowArchdeacon Collick of Koolgardie. We havehad an addition amoun to our ranks recently -I mentioned him in my last letter - Jacques themachine gun officer. His father is in StephenJaques & Stephen sollicitors in Sydney withwhom father may be acquainted. We havealso had a visit from a couple of generalsthis week who messed with us at lunchon consequetive days, generals in thiscountry are almost as common as starlingsin Candelo. Strange to say that in thesame bunch of letters as that one of yourswhich contained a clipping concerning thedeath of Arthur Oakes I had a letter fromthe latter himself written when he was atGallipoli in the trenches & it had been following me about ever since. I did not thinkwhen I commenced writing that I shouldhave been able to fill one page & amcongratulating myself on doing asmuch as this for I can tell younothing my dear & there would be littleto tell if I could so will closewith best love to all & a doubleshare to mother fromHer Loving son,Wilf.