Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 9 February 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L.H. Regt.,Heliopolis9. 2. 1916.My dear mother,I regret to say that no letters havereached me since I wrote you last. We had a longinterval between mails & one has arrived today - I amhoping against hope that it may contain someletters for me - two Sydney mails sent by Harry aremy combi share so far but they give me encouragement.It may be that after the evacuation you alteredthe address, or that my being in hospital for afew days may have upset things, so I amwriting to the Intermediate Base. They will turnup in time as they have done previously even if it'smonths afterwards. Camp life is persuing its regular& monotonous way without much variation. Forthe most part I amuse myself here & occasionallyrun into Cairo, which however offers few attractions.My work here is very light though we havea very large number of men in the regimentat present - over 11 00 & another 140 reinforcementsarriving tonight. Wastage is of course verysmall at present & we are still being reinforced as before. I rise at a few minutes to seven& complete my sick parade before breakfast,then generally see a few more men afterwards& do my camp rounds finishing up byabout half past eleven or twelve. This weekhowever our whole Brigade has beengoing out into the desert for training,leaving about nine oclock & returningat four or five in the afternoon & Ihave been going also. The troopsmake a fine picture as they march outmounted followed by their machine gunsin limbers & the various baggage carts.I commenced doing their drill withthem but soon found that I wasvery much in the way so now I alwaysbetake myself to the shelter of some treesnear by & while away the time with"Pickwick Papers". I generally take myone or two of my men with me & the Maltesecart which carries my medical equipmentwhen on the march, but under thesecircumstances takes the officers lunch. Ihave been arranging for this in my capacityof mess secretary & our caterer here puts up quite a decent lot of food - bread & cheesesandwiches, bread & tongue, hard boiled eggs,salmon, bully beef for a change, tomatoes &fruit. We carry two "dixies for makingtea - they are somewhat the shape of an oldthing you had in Cooma for boiling clothes in.We take out a tablecloth & spread it under thetrees & so make matters quite enjoyeable.This afternoon I decided to go for a ride insteadof waiting about for someone to be injured, soleft my regiment drilling & went for quite along run through the irrigated land. We havehad the opportunity while lunching of inspectingthe Cairo pumping plant which is situatedjust at our lunching post & contains somevery fine machinery. Wesley & I have been intothe city a couple of times for afternoon tea atGroppis which is our best place for such frivolities &we meet there always numbers of people we know. I met noless than eleven people the first afternoon - it is quite pleasantto chat to them after being in camp for some time. Yesterdaywe met Graham, saw some of our own officers there& also Sister Lowe who was assistant matron atPrince Alfred & left there with No TTT Aust Gen. Hospitalwhich was at Lemnos for a long time & has nowbeen established here in some old barracks which are now being renovated. Wehad another sports day here last Saturdaybut the girls we invited did not come,however we soon found a couple ofothers we knew & entertained them atafternoon tea. There are no indications ofour moving off yet & rumors of ourultimate destination are as numerous &as contradictory as ever. Must close nowfor lack of news with best love toall the family & a double share tomother fromHer loving son,Wilf.