Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 15 April 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 15.4.1917My dear mother,Your welcome letter of 1.3.17 to hand thismail likewise several papers which I have not yetopened. We are in the same spot as before but the Turksare livening up a little now & we frequently hear somevigorous "strafing" fortunately at some one else justat present & their aeroplanes are paying much morefrequent visits & occasionally drop a bomb or twobut I think we suffer as much from the shell casesfrom our own anti aircraft guns which of coursemust fall & have an unpleasant habit of droppingin our proximity - one of these just misseda pet monkey we have here yesterday stillI have never heard of any one being hit with one- chances are much against it. It is veryinteresting to watch the puffs of smoke asthe shells explode near the plane & all the boyscheer if the shot is a good one. Since I lastwrote we have done very little so that there isnot much to tell you. We had a visit oneday from Dawson who is now a Colonel inanother an Ambulance & a very funny chap & he livened things up. Then one afternoonWhitford (our new officer, in rank a Major)& I went for a ride over the hills & veryenjoyeable it was. The part where we noware is terribly cut up from the traffic ofso many horses men & no vegetationremains & the earth being of a chalkynature is finely powdered & very disagreeableas it rises on the least provocationBut when we got away from the campson to the hills among the crops it wasglorious, everything green & fresh.We chanced upon a Camel Corps in whichwas an officer named Creswell sonof Admiral Creswell in Melbourne whohad been to school with Whitford inVictoria. They were very glad to seeeach other as they had not met foryears & Creswell who is a very goodjolly fellow told us his experiences.He had first been to New Guinea soonafter outbreak of war & then was a sortof aide-de-camp to the Governor, then he came back to Melbourne & enlisted as a private& finally got a commission in the CamelCorps. He has been all over Egypt, down inthe Sudan, on its western frontier & nowhere. Apart from this visit we have beendoing the usual camp routine & havingour daily dip meanwhiles. I am hoping tosee our Jack some of these days, but he hasnot yet communicated with me from Moascaso don't know if he has arrived - heshould be there now I think so I muststir him up with a letter. I seem to have receivedquite a number of letters all in a bunch latelyfrom different people & have a job to write tothem all. Weather is warming up considerably nowas the summer advances & we can soon lookforward to sweltering again I suppose butnot as bad as before. I cant find anymore news this time my dear so willconclude with my very best of love to allwith double share ^to mother fromYour loving son,Wilf.