Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 18 January 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse Regiment,Racecourse Camp,Heliopolis,18.1.1916.My dear mother,Before I say any more Ithink it would be as well for you toaddress my letters direct to the Regimentnow, although I get them fairly wellfrom the Ambulance. One by one theyare turning up & I think I havereceived practically all your lettersnow, a stray bundle of 9 or 10 letterscame for mee yesterday dated Septembera couple of yours among them. I havealso received three "Life' s" some papersfrom John & Em. Your last letters werequite recent - Dec. 9th. it is so goodto get one's mail decently again.In one of your letters you said that you had received the scent& liked it, so I sent you somemore & if you wish you may give MrsBloomfield one of the bottles as sheseemed fond of it. I was very distressedon reading your letters to find that youwere worrying so much about me & reallyI can't wonder for I quite realize howhard it is for you at home, notknowing where we are or what we aredoing, it is infinitely worse for youthan for us. But, my dear, I like Acannot turn my back on my dutyhowever much my inclinations are todo so & if every medical man did twomonths or so at the front & boltedwhat would the poor lads who aresick & wounded do? I think thereis no doubt where my place is orshould be at present & now thatwe are away from Anzac I hope youwill be more content, & I'm sure that all will be well & I willbe brought safely back to you.I am rather rushed this weekwith my letter as I had set apartlast night for writing it & when Icame in at dinner time & founda wire waiting for me from CousinGwen saying that she was in Cairostaying at a Hotel. So I went inwhen dinner was finished & foundher eventually with five or six nurseson a flying trip to Cairo. She hadarranged to go & see theDavies Bryans who have abig store here & at Alexandria& are Welsh & know all theEvans in England. They areexceedingly nice people & it feltquite strange being in a drawingroom again. But my dear Ihave to go to the dentist now I was interrupted in the middleof this by a visit from Finlaywho was our wireless operatoron the Karoola & is on a flyingtrip here & stayed to lunch. Iweighed today & am 12 stonetwo lbs was never more than11 st, 6 lbs before. I will try &catch the mail with a lettercontaining further news if possiblebut must go now to dentist &will post this so as to be quitesure. Love all in hastefromYour loving son,Wilf.