Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 June 1915 Location: S S Karoola Nationality: Australian Text: June17thOn boardKaroolaPass it on toJack please,In hastelove Delice McILWRAITH, McEACHARNLINE."T.S.S. KAROOLA,"My dear mother & all the Evans Thomasfamily,I hope you will pardonmy more than usually vile writingbut the ship is kicking about withsuch vigor that I have much troublein remaining firm on my seat. Wehave been busy today censoringthe men's letters & I am bound notto tell you the date where we areor at what port this will be postedbut with a little thought you willeasily be able to reckon it out &I will send you a wire if Ipossibly can at the above unmentionedplace. After writing my last letterwe arrived off Port Philip but weonly saw it's entrance & the pilot boat came out to take our sickmen off. It was about 8 a.m & abeautiful morning, sea quite calm,so we lowered a small boat totake the sick man over to thepilot boat a short distance away& I went over in it to take chargeof the sick man on the trip. Iwas hoping to go right in toQueenscliffe on the pilot but myorders were to return immediatelyso I did not even bag anewspaper for which werewere & still are famishing.The Germans may be in Petrogador Paris now for all we knowto the contrary for though wehave wireless we will notpick up messages of that kinduntil we get well into the IndianOcean. Since I wrote you lastthe sea has become a greatdeal more choppy with the result that a great manywere seasick but I havebeen well up to the present thoughyesterday I had a headache.We have very little - too littleto do on board & spend agood deal of time reading &chatting. We had chapel onSunday conducted by Mr. Paterson& there was a large attendance.It was very funny to watchthe men when the boat gavea lurch rolling over into thescuppers & falling over eachother, the officers had seats infront & some of the men whowere standing behind wouldgrasp their seats for supportwith the result that thewhole thing would movebodily along the deck.The chaplain was looking rather unhappy, & his facepresented a greyish tinge& an anxious expressionlike a kitten drowning in abucket of water, but hewent through the servicecourageously if somewhatprosily. He is however a verynice old chap. We also haveMr Diggs la Touche onboard. I think I havementioned him before as beinga Church of England clergymanwho is a lieutenant in thefighting ranks & he isassisting the chaplain inhis services. Several men inthe ranks are also divinitystudents or clergymen &one of them who is a sargeantis conducting a service. The food on board is excellentthere is plenty of fruit & severalcourses for each meal as, soupentres meat poultry pudding &dessert. Today I have foronce been busy as I am onduty for four days as medicalofficer to the sick paradestwice daily when all men whowish to see a doctor or needopening medicine are broughtforward. I had about80 men this morning & 30this afternoon but twomedical officers are allotteddaily. Then we have been busily engaged in censoring letters, youcan imagine how many lettersare written by the men & it isa very wearisome job. Howeverthere is a humorous side to itas many of the remarks madeby the men cause outbursts oflaughter. I must warn youthat after this letter youwill probably not receiveone for some little time asopportunity will not probablypresent itself for postingletters & then it will takesome time for the letter toreach you but if I havehe opportunity I will alwayssend you a wire or cable.so that you may possiblyreceive one at no greatperiod after this but it is hard to say as no oneknows how long our tripis expected to take & ifwe did know I couldnot tell you so please donot be too anxious if youare kept waiting for sometime after the receipt ofthis letter. As regards myphotographs my dear Ithink it will be necessaryto get a 2nd dozen as Ipromised a good manyto different people & severalnurses at the hospital amongthem. So if you wouldwrite to Cruders & ask themto send an extra dozenyou could pay for themfrom the money which is tobe paid to you. By the way I wrote to Mr. Bloomfield &asked him to open an accountfor me as I afterwards thought itwould be better & he should shortlyreceive 15 - 20 from Liverpoolas we were not paid before leaving& I asked Captain Schlinkwho was in command of theAMC there to collect it & sendit on to the Commercial Bankat Candelo. Please let meknow about it & whether theyare sending along my pay asthe should - 12/6 daily. Iclosed my Savings Bankaccount & bought awayabout 20 in gold with.me in case of emergencies.I'm very grieved that I can'tfind anyone here to whom Icould temporarily lose my heartin order to help pass time. We have been passing timefor the most part quietly,reading talking playing cards& so on, & on the whole ithas gone rather quickly upto the present. I have missedyour letters a good deal as it isimpossible for me to receive anybefore we reach Egypt as noneof the mail boats will performthe journey quicker than we ifall goes well. I will leave theremainder of the letter to finishnearer port my dear. Wilf.