Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 16 February 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L.H Regt.Heliopolis,16. 2. 1916. My dear mother,I have just heard thata mail is leaving tomorrow & I must sendyou a few lines though my last letter willprobably not have left yet. I received twoof your letters at No 1 A.G.H. on enquirythere for mail. They were dated Jan 7th& Dec 31st. If you had addressed themto this regiment or ambulance they wouldhave found me much easier, you need neverhave any scruples about addressing a letter tothe regiment even without any further particularsas the military post office always knowswhere the regiment is. The best addressis 9th Light Horse Regiment, 3rd Light Horse Brigade,Egypt, or if we moved from Egypt merelyaddress it to the Regiment & Brigade as above& it will always find us. It is just aswell to add the letters A.I.F. also thoughthat is not absolutely necessary. You misunderstoodmy cable as regards address - when I said addressAmbulance Egypt, I meant 3rd L.H.F. Amb. Egypt,however, the letter thus addressedfound me which is rather a tribute to thepostal officials as there are so many ambulancesin Egypt. Was glad to hear that you werewell & that Mab will probably be with youat the present time & do hope that you willhave a trip away yourself soon. It isjust about a year since we were togetherin Sydney - may we be together there againbefore another year is my great desireI commenced to write to you early tonight butwas interrupted & have not much time now asreveille goes tomorrow at 4.30 a.m. for theBrigade is going for a route march(on horseback) to the Barage tomorrow28 23 miles away & camping out at nightreturning next day. It is now after nineo'clock but I must try & send you someword. I went into Cairo to church onSunday & spent the evening with theBryans. Mr Bryans brother from Alexandriawas there also & another gentleman & hiswife. They were all Welsh as usual &made frequent references to parts ofWales & spoke a few Welsh sentences.Except for that I have been out little, but just remember, that I went to No TTTAust. Gen. Hospital to dinner on Saturday nightwith Sister Demestre who was at PrinceAlfred Hospital. She was one of the oldestsisters there & one of the most unpopularbut she has rather improved out here. Wesley& I were to go & dine with Sister Lowe who wasassistant matron at Prince Alfred but she hadbeen moved from No TTT A.G.H before the nightarrived & Sister Demestre insisted on usgoing to dine with her. Wesley however hadan attack of influenza & I was left to facethe music alone. There were thousands ofSisters there or so it appeared but Iwas not very alarmed & spent rather aninteresting time. Several other Prince Alfredgirls were there & Sister Demestre had thedecency to bring along something youngerin the nurse line to talk to which waspleasant of her. I have now a new nagto ride, a fine bay pony which reminds me ofCharley he is such a pet, loves sugar & suchlike items. He is quiet & a fine hack & agood substantial pony, just the thing for adoc's horse. I still have the other oldone too & the groom rides him. But Ihad better close & trot off to bed mydear with best love to all the family& mother's usual share fromYour loving son,Wilf.