Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 16 December 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: I thinkI will send afew more photos takenby Cave, panoramas again Cairo & the BaragePlease fix if you canas previously arranged*] 16.12.1916My dear mother,We have had a mail thisweek & I had a letter from Mab & Mrs Job,but yours is not yet to hand, I expect itwill be here today or tomorrow as youprobably have registered it & registered lettersalways come a day or two later than theothers. We have just had a little excitementas a German aeroplane has been over havinga peep at us & our guns have been doingtheir best to bring him down. Firstly themachine guns opened with a mostabominable clatter & then the proper anti-air craft guns sent their shells after him& the air in the vicinity was full ofwhite & black puffs of shrapnel buthe just sailed peacefully onwards & I think dropped a few bombs at acamp some few miles away. They are very goodin their respect for the Red Cross flag & neverdrop bombs intentionally on Ambulances,we have large red crosses placed on theground to show our position. One day thisweek he paid us another visit & bombedone of the regiments but only succeededin killing a horse, fortunately the bombthat did this did not explode or itwould certainly have done more damage.The others dropped wide. I have notbeen about very much since last week, thereare very few places to go & the countryis so dreadfully heavy to ride over thatit spoils the pleasure. I went over to the9th Regt yesterday afternoon & just hada chat, tomorrow I will go over fordinner. We are making preparationsfor Xmas & have senta man right away to Port Said to try & get a reallive turkey. We are spending 5/- perman out of the funds of the Corpsor Canteen funds stuff & then the Red CrossSociety have sent stuff along &the Comforts Society are also sendingsome. Then the Government are issuingpuddings & the billies from Australiaare to be distributed to each manin a day or two, so it seems to methat as far as eating matters gothe men should fare very well.But what if we should haveto move suddenly just when we getall the stuff - I sincerely hopenot or some would surely be illafter trying to put it all away.We go to bed very early nowadaysas there is little to do in the evenings& lights should be out at 8 pm. though I have rigged up a shade to mylamp which makes it unnecessary.I am trying to read Tolstoi's "War &Peace" but it rather bores me as thereare three volumes & the detail is a weebit tedious. What an awful stateAustralia has been in with strikes &incendiaries, refusing conscription & so on.I don't believe half the people reallyrealize that there is a war on & thatour ou utmost effort is needed. Someof them need to have a few bombsdropped near their peaceful townsor to witness the treatment ofBelgium Servia or Roumania toreally wake them up. I must closefor the present & finish later.Sunday eveningI went out for a little ride this afternoon for exercise & a small walkafterwards then had dinner, afterthat went to the office for a whilefixed up a few returns, had asmoke of the Lucy Hinton you sentme & am finishing off the pipe as Iwrite. I suppose you are off to Churchnow or would be if our times were thesame. We had church parade today,& I it fell to my lot to take our littlelot along. It is quite a novelexperience after being in a regimentwhere one had so few men to look afterthat it was never necessary to marchthem along, to proceed with a party inthe proper manner & marshall themto their allotted space on parade Wealways form three sides of a hollowsquare with the padr (ministersare always padrs in the army) at the open end. When the parade is formedthe General comes along with muchclattering of spurs & galloping ofhorses, & the parade is handedover to him by the senior officer onparade, & he in turn hands it overto the padrwho then appears.The men all stand until the sermoncomes along when the order is given tosit & afterwards we march pastthe general with a flourish givingthe order "Eyes right" to our men & eachofficer saluting. The weather now is stillglorious, in the day I only need to weara dull pair of riding breeches & flannelshirt & in the evenings as now puton a cardigan jacket, though towardsearly morning it is quite cold. I haveheard from Wesley several times lately,he is still at Salisbury Plains, & finds it rather dull as leave is scarcethough he managed to go to Londonfor two days recently. Mrs Jobtold me in her letter this time thatsome good people in Australia hadgot me engaged to a nurse overhere - first I knew of it, shewas writing to you & was afraid tomention it for fear that you mightbe upset. I can assure you, mydear, that you have no causeat all to worry on that score fornothing is further from my mind& goodness knows what opportunityone gets for doing these things whenhe has leave once in five months orso & then finds all the people heknows in Cairo vanished. I certainlywouldn't mind flirting furiously fora few days if I had the opportunity but I certainly don't want to gettied up yet although years come onapace, as I would like very much todo a little more post graduate studybefore that if only this beastly warwould end. It is a wretchedthing isn't it mother my dear keepingus separated like this & puttingone back so long in his work.However cheer up Germany looksas if she has just about hadenough & so have we if the truthwere told. So goodnight my deardon't be downhearted, with loveto all & a real thumping kissto mother fromHer loving sonWilf