Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 7 May 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Es. Salt Letter.7.5.1918My dear mother,I don't quite know how many days it issince I last wrote as we have had a very busy & excitingtime during the intervening period. By the way, a mail arrivedyesterday & I received three very welcome letters from you- I must get hold of them before I post this & see whatthere is to reply to. We started off a few days ago onan expedition away up into the hills which you willdoubtless have read of before this to Es Salt. Startingoff one evening we marched nearly all night marchingup along the valley of the Jordan & next morningattacked the foothills of the tremendous range ofhills on the other side which I have formerly describedto you at a spot which was only lightly held byTurks with the object of getting round to the flank& rear of the town. The resistance in the foothillswas overcome fairly easily & towards evening weset out up a goat track for Es Salt. Such amarch I have never done before or since & neverwish to do again. We had to ascend 4000feet above the valley of the Jordan over a trackwhich is indescribable. It is impossible to rideup so we had to dismount & lead our horses& it is covered with sharp scraggy rocks which impede progress terribly & over which thepoor old horses stumbled terribly. In places theedges of the track drop precipitously for hundredsof feet. The experience was a veritable nightmare,as darkness came on before we had gone very far &we stumbled on up huge never ending hills in thedarkness for hours. At one period my groom & I wereseparated from the column in front which hadvanished in the darkness & had no one inrear & we went along the ill marked trackfor some time & then thought that possibly wehad missed our way & had better wait tillsome of the others overtook us. It was rathera horrid experience as we were seated in a gullyalmost alone in the darkness surrounded bythe huge hills & not knowing whether we werenear the Turkish lines or some of the nativevillages which are inhabited in that part byunscrupulous & generally armed people.We waited for a few minutes & then decided that we hadbetter try & retrace our steps till we met some ofour folk in case we were wrong, so we went back acouple of miles & to our great relief met a Regimenthalted on the track. So we waited & came alongwith them. Eventually we halted for the night &picketed the horses. It was very cold in the hills & I had only a thin macintosh on the saddle butmanaged to snatch an hour or twos slumber as wehad none the previous night. Next morning we wereup early & pushed into Es Salt which had been takenby the Brigade I once belonged to x the previous nightin a very dashing way, They had charged thedefenders on the hill tops above the town & then gallopedinto the streets & bagged about 300 prisoners.How their horses kept their feet I don't know as itis a terribly steep rocky descent into the town.Col Dixon & I entered together & made our way tothe Turkish hospital which was as usual full ofsick & wounded & in charge of a Syrian doctor namedShediac who had been left behind at his own requestas he was very anxious to escape to us as he hadbeen educated in America & come back to Beirutjust a year or two before the war & when war brokeout had been impressed by the Turks into service.He spoke English well & was of great assistance tous. We decided to take over the old Turkish headquartersnext door as our hospital, from whence GemelPasha had only escaped a few minutes beforeour arrival. There were some beautiful chairscarpets & tables there & the place was fairlyclean & in good order. We next went to headquarters& arranged for necessary guards over hospital & for permission to use food supplies Etc which were in the town,& sent down one of the Ambulances to form apla receiving place there for wounded. I wentin to look after this & Col Dixon returned toour own headquarters. I found the stairs whichled up to the Turkish headquarters very steep forcarrying up wounded so cast round for asuitable spot on street level & finally locatedone near by which had been used as a grainstore. At the back was an R C church containinglarge quantities of grain. We cleaned theplace up & started our hospital, & soonwounded began to arrive. I began a searchround the town for transport for wounded, as wehad been unable to bring any wheeled vehicles upwith us & only few camels had been able tostruggle up, so that we were rather stumped. Idiscovered a Turkish motor Ambulance in workingorder & impressed a German motor driver fromamong the prisoners to drive it under a guard.It had sufficient petrol in the tank to runit for a while & I sent it off down the mainroad to evacuate wounded into the townfrom where the Brigades were fighting.I had better draw a little sketch to showyou how there happened to be a main road at that point. It was like this.We went up the goat track marked on the leftas the main metalled road on the right wasstrongly held by Turks & so we cut in on totheir rear but in doing so could bring nowheeled vehicles with us. They had motor transportrunning from Amman to Es Salt & down to theJordan however & Amman is on their railwayto the Hedjaz. So when we reached Es SaltI wanted some wheeled vehicles to run upthe road to Amman & also along the other wayto bring in wounded to Es Salt.So we got the motor Ambulance going & I also foundseveral Turkish wagons & harness for them whichwe attached to some of our own pack horses &used them for the job. Later on I got a touringcar going too & was working on some motor lorrieswhich they had left behind to get them inworking order.Food was the next question as we could hardlybring up supplies along the road which wehad come & the Turks held the main road so through the agency of the Syrian doctorI got hold of the chief town baker &arranged for him to start baking breadI found however that we had only two bagsof flour ground so that the next problem wasto get a mill working to grind the wheat into flour.Our engineers helped me & we obtained quite a lot ofbenzene in the town by searching through the houses ofthe natives who had plundered what had been leftbehind by the Turks. We succeeded in getting the millgoing & with the aid of a Turkish wagon & a coupleof our horses conveyed flour grain to it & wood toflour from the mill to the bakers. So we soon hadan excellent supply of bread for ourselves & theTurkish wounded & I requisitioned some cowsfrom the inhabitants for fresh meat, givingthem receipts in exchange. These were slaughteredby some of the Turkish hospital orderlies.We also used some Turkish wagons as transportfor wounded using our own horses as means oftraction.Wounded began to arrive soon after our arrival inthe town some by camel cacolets which hadbeen got up the hills with great difficulty& some on our captured Ambulance & wagon &soon the hospital was very busy. I took up my quarters for the two nights we spent in Es Salt inthe room of the chief Turkish doctor to Gemel Pashawho had bolted. So I had a four posterbedstead, wardrobe with looking glass & all complete.The Turks shelled the town rather heavily on twoor three occasions & killed & wounded some ofthe inhabitants & destroyed some houses. Some ofthe inhabitants were Christian & there were two Christianchurches one Roman Catholic & one Protestant & theR C church had some of the most beautiful vestmentsin it that I have ever seen. We sent The Turksill treated the inhabitants very much & killed a lot ofthem not after our last raid to that place so theywere very frightened indeed. We sent away from timeto time all the men who were fit to ride, on thei ridinghorses sent from the Brigades as that was the only meansat our disposal along the precipitous goat trackwe had come. During this time the Turks weremaking frequent attacks on us as we were holdinga long thin line, but our fellows fought magnificently& repelled them all along the line, outnumbered asthey were, & in one case bagged an extra 300prisoners in addition to the 300 they had at firsttaken. These prisoners were also sent back straightaway to get them out of the way. On the thirdday after our entry I received orders to send away every case I possibly could by means of riding horseswhich were being sent down & all the cacolet camels. Ithought at the time that we would surely have to leave30 or 40 behind as we only had accommodation on camelsfor a few lying cases, & we had orders to get everypossible case away & then come ourselves. We decidedthat if we had to leave anyone to leave also 1 NCO &2 men to look after them and when the Turks tookover. Our position at that spot was quiteuntenable for long as we were almost surroundedby Turks & had a very good chance of going toConstantinople. You see we had gone along one verynarrow track which was our only connection backwith our own people & which was being kept openby a very thin line of our folk, & in addition justwhere this band left the hills the Turks haddriven in a very strong attack & gone withinan ace of cutting off the exit in which casewe were bottled & bound for Turkey land. Sothe heads evidently thought it time to get out.The riding horses & camels arrived & we loadedthem as rapidly as we could & in the end foundthat we were able to get all our wounded onboard save two dying cases who could notsurvive long & these were left, & we broughtaway all the Ambulance personnel leaving none behind though one corporal badly wanted tostay with the two dying fellows, but we wouldnot permit him as they were at the timepractically unconscious. Col Dixon & I stayeduntil we saw the last man away & then guidedour convoy out of the town by a devious narrowsteep path. I certainly never thought that we wouldget the camels & their wounded safely down theprecipitous rocky hills which lay between us & theJordan. I expected before leaving the town to beattacked by some of the Bedouin inhabitants butall went well until we got on to the hills outsidethe town when they opened fire on our convoy fromthe hill sides around. They hit one of theAmbulance fellows in the knee & wounded threehorses but all continued their slow way onwards.One camel frightened by the firing fell over a precipicewith its two wounded but they were eventuallyrescued and brought on The convoy marvellous torelate reached the plain without another mishapbut how those camels did it I can't imagine &I'll take my off my hat to a camel in futureThe contrast on the plain from the fresh air ofthe hills was tremendous as on the hills the airwas fresh & clear & cool, the country green &beautiful, but when we descended into the Jordan valley the heavy stagnant hot air& dried up country was a very unpleasant contrast& since then it has grown steadily hotter & yesterdayreached 110o, & that degree of temperature whenone's protection is a small bivouac made of waterproof sheet is no joke. The dust in the valley isbeyond all description as the traffic of men & horseschurns everything to a fine powder which blowsin huge clouds, obscuring everything. It was verywindy today & that has brought an agreeablycool change into the atmosphere so that we arevery pleased tonight. The Syrian doctor cameback with us & is now safely away from theTurks. No more news now my dear so willclose with best of love & hugs fromYour loving son,Wilf.