Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 7 November 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse RegimentAnzac,November 7th 1915My dear mother,Another week has passed away quietly & here I amsitting on a box outside my dug out in beautiful sunshine scribblingthis letter to you. It is a Sabbath afternoon & though there is againno church service owing to the illness of the chaplain somethingof the peace & restfulness of Sunday has come over me as I havelolled about in the sun although the duties of the day are exactlysimilar to those of other days A mail came here this weekbut of course contained nothing for me though I expect tothat by the time the next mail arrives my letters will have beenre - addressed from Egypt & I will receive some. Yesterday Isent off a week end cablegram to you as I thought itmight relieve your mind a little, although it will be two orthree weeks old when you receive it as it takes fully two weeksfor it to go to Alexandria by letter post from where it issent by cable. I have also discovered that the best dayto post letters here is Saturday so in future I will writeon Friday commencing this week. Today we had a gift oftobacco & cigarettes sent from Australia, one plug of tobacco& three packets of cigarettes for each man - I have quite a number of cigarettesnow with those issued, more than I can smoke, so will passsome on to heavier smokers. It was very interesting yesterdayto watch one of our aeroplanes above us here which was going along merrily when suddenly I heard herengines stop & thought something must be wrong& she commenced to descend gradually & veryskilfully by voltoplaning, are sloping down slowlyin one direction, then turning & descending in anotheruntil she finally landed in the water from where shewas towed to the land. It is difficult to knowquite how much I am allowed to tell you ofmilitary operations but I think small events ofthat kind are allowable. Yesterday afternoonalso there was a very interesting bombardment ofa place called Sniper's Nest, by some of ourhowitzars on the plain near here. The Snipers whohad some weeks ago been kept down fairly well byour men by counter sniping & machine guns inthis position, had dug themselves in & built overheadcover for themselves so that they became fairly safe &then grew troublesome as there are certain pointswhich are visible to them at fairly short range & they areconstantly firing at these spots. Our guns thereforedetermined to destroy their cover & did some excellentshooting sending about 20 high explosive shells intothe spot & all except two or three shots were directhits & I believe they knocked almost demolishedthe place. It's a very strange thing that a largeproportion of our men here have never seen aTurk & I suppose most of the Turks have never seen an Australian or a Briton, for both sides areso well entrenched that they are invisible to each other. I saw my first two Turks today through atelescope a long distance away, otherwise they wouldhave been undercover, & we could see one of their dressingstations in the open, as neither side intentionally shellsthe others medical staff or sick & wounded. I also walkedalong the trenches beyond our own immediate locality toa spot called the Apex, then trenches there beingmerely a continuation of our own but very much closerto the Turks at one point only about 30 yards away &I had a peep through a periscope at them withtheir wire entanglements in front & then as we passedback to our own line had more peeps through periscopes& watched the distance between the two lines of trenchesgradually widening until it became about 600 yardsin our own with a deep gully intervening between the two.At the apex itself there is just a narrow ledge connectingthis Rhododendron Ridge with the main Tunic Bahr rangewithout the intervening gully but of course Mr Turk hasthat particular part commanded by innumerablemachine guns and guarded with wire entanglements.We have had a continuation of the glorious weatherI spoke of last week, thus further verifying thatexcellent forecast which was given of us & clippedfrom the Westminster Gazette. We are to have a cold snap in the middle of November & then it is to become mildat the end. Southerly gales early in December followed bya calm period fairly mild till Xmas. Then northerlywinds & rain. Blizzards in January the snowsometimes lies for 6 weeks, so I expect it will befairly cold then. Never mind we are well covered in& have plenty of warm clothes. I ran down (metaphoricallyspeaking) to see Wesley this week & he came up & hadsome afternoon tea with me, otherwise I havenot been about very much. I have been reading agood deal, finished Thackeray's Pendennis which Ithink you would enjoy - in some respects it remindsme of our own case but hope I'm not so bad asthe hero is pictured, am at present reading Carlyle'sHeroes & Hero worship which I borrowed - had partiallyread it before I left Australia, & am also readingDickens Tale of Two Cities. I will write to Egypt againI think for some more of Dickens & Victor Hugos Les Miserablesas I can get them over in about a month. My last orderof some books chocolate etc from Egypt has not yet arrivedbut I expect it shortly. I would like to believe that youare well & contented & not distressed about me, all willbe well I feel sure with God's help. Xmas greetings toeveryone, I am awfully sorry that I can sendnothing more than greetings. Best of love to all& a double share to mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.