Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 9 July 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9.7.17.My dear mother,Your welcome letter of 21st Mayto hand today - comparatively shortly after thelast lot which must have been delayedsomewhere or other. Very glad to hear that youare well & that you have been having a few visitorsthough it must be very awkward without a maidYour letters must now be increasing in numbers as Jackhas left - I had another note from him inMoasca where he is in isolation, he had not atthat time received my last letter. I asked twoor three of my friends to look him up whileat Moasca. By the way I saw Myrt Connellwhen in Cairo last time in Hospital - Iwas passing through a ward & up popsMyrt from a table. He was convalescent& didn't look much worse for hisillness. I received news this week thatmy majority had been cabled out fromEngland & though it has not yet beenout in our "Orders" it will come throughin a few days so you can address thenext letters as Major instead of Captainwhich is perhaps some improvement. Since I last wrote you I have hada busy & rather varied week - wewent out on a long reconnaissancenearly to Beersheba one day & veryhot & thirsty it was sitting near thatBiblical city, as the country isabsolutely without shade. We were shelledby the enemy during the day verythoroughly but had very few casualtiesindeed. It is marvellous how manyshells can be fired & how few peoplehit when they are spread out overthe country. The Ambulance consequentlyhad little to do all day, we settled downin a wadi or gully, but moved out of ourfirst position as the shells began tocome rather close. It was very funnyto watch the performance, the menhav had fed their horses & werecommencing to make tea whensuddenly whiz! bang! in the vicinity.The tea was completely forgotten in theexcitement & as several men followed,we ordered feeds to be taken off thehorses, & on saddle and away.The water in the drums got spilt ofcourse in the general scramble.However we found a new spot &made ourselves comfy there for therest of the day, lack of shadebeing the chief trouble. I managedto prop a stretcher rather precariouslyabout 2 feet above the groundon two pieces of deal board &lay under it, dodging the sunas it moved round the sky.We got back to camp very tired & thirsty.A couple of days after that we moved backfrom the front line & are now camped in the samespot as we were about 6 weeks ago. The day afterwe came in I went over to the beach with Cave, whowas once in this unit & is now D.A.D.M.S. in this division,to spend the week end with Stewart who is incharge of a Rest Camp on the beach & verywell situated. We had a splendid time for acouple of days, the water was glorious &we had 3 swims a day, eat huge meals,slept plenty & generally all enjoyed ourselves.We had all been together before in this Ambulance& so knew each other well. The Rest camp is aninstitution for men who are run down & are sent thereto recuperate & each division has one which cantake 200 patients. They get splendid food& have nothing to do except loll about onthe beach & swim. They There is a bandwhich plays morning & evening & the RedCross Society in it's usual splendid wayis assisting with gramophones, extra foodcomforts, clothing, tooth brushes shaving brushesEtc Etc. I only came back this morning &received your letter. (Please don't think I wasthere as a patient - no officers are taken, butjust went for a run like we used to do in theolden days). In a few more days I am togo up to Divisional Headquarters for trainingin work on the medic staff there, so that inthe future if a vacancy occurred I mightbe appointed as D.A.D.M.S. (Deputy AssistantDirector of Medical Services) or some such job.No more news, my dear, lots of love & hugsfrom your loving sonWilf.