Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 21 July 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Hebron Nationality: Australian Text: 21.7.1918. My dear mother,Down in the valley once more for a few weeksamong the dust & heat, but the season is advancing & willbe changing for the better soon. We fortunately missed oneheat wave when the temperature was over 105 for the wholeweek. Since our arrival it has been comparatively decent & wehaven't felt it at all. We are comfortably situated as we havean E. P. tent (quite a large square tent) for a mess & have decentbivouacs. I think when I last wrote you I was at BethlehemPort Said. I returned to Bethlehem only a few days before wemoved but was fortunate in having a trip to Bethehem Hebronin the meantime. Hebron was the spot where Davidlived before he became king & Abraham, Sarah &Isaac were all buried there & over their gravesis erected a large Mohommedan mosque withpillars or minarets in honour of each of these,as the Old Testament characters are heroes toMohommedans as well as Christians. The townis a pretty old place surrounded by a fertile tractof country covered with grape vines, fruit trees& crops of all kinds. The main road fromJerusalem to Beersheba runs through it & Iunderstand it was the centre of the Turkishvilayet before we took the country. The hillsaround are rocky & steep & it was among them that David took refuge - the tomb caveof Abraham being I understand betweenBethlehem & Hebron. We had a most pleasantafternoon, on our way down had a look at anew water supply which has been constructedfor Jerusalem. Jerusalem has always beenshort of water as it has only the Pool ofSiloam & one small spring as a naturalwater supply, relying, otherwise on catchment inthe rainy season which is stored by theinhabitants in cisterns in their homes & thesupply thus kept generally tides them over thedry season which lasts all summer.In addition the old aqueduct from Solomon'spools still runs but is not a greatsupply. Early in this summer the presence ofso many troops encroached considerably onthe water supply of the inhabitants & to replaceit our engineers have been engaged in repairinga large reservoir built by Pontius Pilate manyyears ago some 15 miles from Jerusalem onthe Hebron road but instead of using the oldaqueduct by a s which ran by a sinuouscourse through the valleys to the lowerpart of Jerusalem - it's source was onlyas high as the lower part of Jerusalem -they now pump it up to the top of a big hill & then by means of pipes run it by gravity fromthere to Jerusalem. Certainly the Britishpeople treat the inhabitants of capturedcountries very well.I am now busily engaged warring againstmosquitos. Col Dixon suddenly obtainedleave to Australia & leaves tomorrow. I havegiven him your address & asked him to callon you if he is in Sydney. He is a fine chap& I'm sure you would like him.No more news this time mother mine, hopeyou are very well & in good spirits asI am with lots of lovefromYour loving son,Wilf.Some of these days I'm going to havea shot for some leave home toAustralia if I can raise somedecent reasons. Can you thinkof any?