Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 25 December 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 25.12.1917My dear mother,I'm just making an attempt towrite you a few lines on Xmas day & hoping that youare enjoying your Christmas as much as possible with twoof the family so far away. I am wondering if you are atGoulburn Lismore Newcastle or still in Candelo: can justimagine you pottering in the kitchen over the Xmasgoose or turkey (it is now about 10 a.m.) & getting everythingright for dinner, & I suppose it is as hot as can be outsidein the sun. We are having a "dead funny Xmas".We are now away up in the hills of Jordan, where tracksare few & only made with great labour, & all around us are roughcraggy hills, devoid of trees but covered with huge boulders.Villages are still scattered about & the Arabs plough therich soil in the bottoms of the valleys. It is as coldas charity & the weather typically English - for thelast week it has been raining off & on & last nightXmas eve it simply poured all night & blew ahurricane, & I was in hourly dread that my bivouacwould blow down as it is only held by six pegsHowever it fortunately held & I kept fairly dry saveone or two of my items of clothing which however didnot incommode me much. Some of the menhowever were much less fortunate & slept in about a foot of water. This morning its raining like afun again, so you can imagine we are not holdinghigh festival. Still everyone is cheerful, only some ofthem didn't seen to appreciate it very much, when Isaid that it was splendid to have the rain layingthe dust for us like this (most of us have about afoot of mud caked on our boots - its horriblysticky) - very few seemed to agree with me.I went down yesterday in a Ford motor car (theyare really wonderful things) through the mud, betweenshowers & brought up Padr Gordon, of Goulburn& a friend of Harry's who is our padr onDivision & who has been attached to one of ourClearing Hospitals during operations. The Generalwanted him here for Xmas & so we hadservice this morning - only a short one as itwas very cold & commenced to rain heavily& there was no shelter. We sang one or two ofthe old hymns Bethlehem etc & thenmade a dive for our bivouacs again& I smoked the pipe of peace therePipe is a great consolation underthese circs. By the way, the parcel from the Candelo Knitting Association, containg socks &hankys from you & the tobacco all in goodcondition arrived a day or two ago. Many thanksmy dear once more, it was exceedingly welcome.Also the Dayfield Body Shield which I fear willnot be of very great service, as every pound ofweight tells on a horse in long distances & I reallyam not exposed a great deal on DivisionalHeadquarters but I will pass it to someone towhom it may be of some use, if I find Icannot use it. But, bless you again my dearfor your thoughtfulness & generosity. I hadsome letters also this week, one from Mabstrangely enough asking for a spoon as curio &I sent one along with other curios fromJerusalem to you a few days ago askingyou to distribute them among the family.I hope the books of views arrive safely also asthey are quite good. Keep what you wantmy dear & pass on the others.Glad you put some cash in the War Loan for me,if it is a good investment - just whatever you thinkmother mine. My hair, of which you were enquiring,does not become any thicker, indeed I imagineit is thinner, but why worry, I can't do muchto it, on operations, as difficulties of carrying even extra small things are so great, but Ijust got a pot of ointment to stop the scurflast night - I'm afraid none of the girls willlook at me if I'm a bald, old man, & thatwould be horrible wouldnt it? For goodnesssake mother, don't go & disturb your nightssleep with such dreadful dreams as youhave, it's not good for the constitutionPlease excuse the smudges, the rain splashesin a bit on the paper & I can't quite seewhere ths it's coming from.Anderson who was in my year at the Varsityhas just arrived here & is in one of theAmbulances in this Division - about timehe arrived too though it is rather uncharitableto say so at Xmas - he brought a tie tome from Dr Rennie & a letter arrivedthe same day from him.I was just thinking today of the 3Christmas days I have had sinceleaving home - one on the Mediterraneandodging submarines, the second justarrived back from Magdhaba with a load of wounded & the third in thehills of Judaea in the rain. By Jove! it ispouring - I hope the farmers here likeit - if only Mr Guthrie and some of theCollinss were here they would dote on it.Full stop for a minute, the main peg startedto come out & the bivouac to collapseso I had to rush out & save it with theaid of my batman- its a lovely warisn't it my dear?There's one thing about weather like this -Johnny Turk isn't likely to become livelyso we won't have much to do likewisewe wouldnt be likely to attack either.I shouldn't like to have the job of drawingrations today - what a life !!!No more news my dear, & as it's stillpouring persistently we can feel hopes ofa good crop in Palestine in the spring &wish them luck.Best of love to all fromYour loving sonWilf.