Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 19 June 1915 Location: Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Note address 1st Aust. General Hospital,Heliopolis, EgyptJuly 19th, 1915. My dear mother,We have just arrivedhere last night & are told that a mailleaves today so I am scribbling you somenews now. I believe that our letters willbe censored in Sydney before reaching youtherefore I conclude that I must confinemy remarks to generalities leaving outanything prejudicial. My last letter wassent from Aden & since then which isabout a week ago we have passed throughthat much dreaded stretch of water _the Red Sea. To my great surprise &pleasure it was not nearly as hot asI had anticipated as we had a goodhead wind all the way along & we couldgenerally find some cool spot, thoughthe first two days were certainly muchhotter than any weather I hadpreviously experienced. I found thetrip up the Red Sea much more interestingthan that over the Indian Ocean as we were constantly passing ships of all kinds& the numerous islands & glimpses of shoreall caught our attention. The islandsare as you will remember very rough &craggy without vestige of any livingthing except an occasional lighthouse.I have only a few minutes to finish thisletter so will not be able to f give youa full account but will postpone thattill later. We reach Suez during thenight but all remained up till wedropped anchor, playing larks &romping round & when at last Idid go to bed I was pulled outof my hammock several times sowe had quite a night of it. I hadslept during the previous afternoon inanticipation fortunately, I slept outon deck, as almost everyone didas soon as we reached the hot climatein a hammock & found it verypleasant, & in addition to this havenot shaved my upper lip for aboutthree weeks & have a young silkymoustache which however has annoyedme today by getting into my soup& tea & as I object to carry aboutan advertisement of the menu on my upper lip I intend to shave it offpresently. We remained all the followingday in Suez on board the ship& were boarded by numerousCustoms officials naval officersetc so on while waiting. There werenumerous other boats lying in theharbor including a cruiser or twowhich made matters quite interestingI have no time to describe a littletrip I had into the township of Sueznext day & our very interesting tripby rail from Suez to Cairo - we didnot come through the canal - it wasthe most interesting trip I ever hadin my life, will give you a full accountnext letter. Suffice to say I amin excellent health & spiritsam housed in absolutely the finesthotel in the world I believe nowconverted into a hospital, &will wish send love to all membersof the family & a double shareto your own dear self fromYour ever loving sonWilf.Must rush & post this if I canHope its not closed.I cabled from Cairo this morning