Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 28 May 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 28.5.1916.My dear mother,Once again I commence my letter toyou, on a Sunday afternoon this time although thereis little to remind one in these regions that it isSunday save that the men do less work & we havea church parade. Still there is not the same restfulfeeling of the Sunday at home, probably because myown work goes on much as usual & occupies novery great length of time at that. Last SundayWesley & I rode into the XXXXXX & had a dip (Iforgot & had to censor myself) & again a coupleof days ago. It is rather a long way to ridein though the bathing is very enjoyiable. We don'tseem to mind coming back as we are cooled down& it is later in the evening but it is generallyrather warm riding in. We have commencedplaying bridge in the evenings now & find it avery pleasant method of passing the time. Untilrecently we had not enough players but someofficers came in from some outlying posts & filledup the required four. I am now looking afterthe health of a small British company near herein addition to my own people & it helps to occupy time. & keeps me out of mischief. Rumor has it thatour last mail went on to France by mistake - Ihope not or it will be a very long time before wereceive it. We would all like to follow it on thereas I'm sure we would prefer the chance of bullets& shells to this desert but we must all stay where ourservices are most required. My leave to Cairo wasrefused by some one in high office who did not knowor care much about the facts of the case but anotherchannel is open & I hope to use it soon. I want togo there & get some of that brassware to sendalong, very much, but must wait my chance. Isuppose the weather is cold at home now - I canimagine those cold frosty mornings & the fire inthe evening in the dining room & wish that Icould join you, but I can do so in spirit &hope to do so in the flesh before the nextcold spell. I do wish my dear that I hadsome news to tell you but have none save thatI am very well & kicking thankyou & hope thatyou & all the family are the same, with best oflove to all & mother usual share fromHer loving son,Wilf.