Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 23 February 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 23.2.1917 My dear mother,Once again in the Ambulance in ourold camp, having a quiet peaceful time. I openedthe parcel you sent me in the cake tin I rememberso well & thoroughly enjoyed exploring it's mysteries.The cake, my dear, as usual was a beauty & we hadit for afternoon tea for several days. And the "LucyHinton" was indeed welcome to say nothing of thetooth brush nuts & chocs. They are not all eatenyet but are being spread over several days. I wishI could return you the cake tin but I don't believeyou would own it now, it's so horribly dinged bythe treatment it received en route. I will fill incheque & send it by this letter as directed by you &will also write Mr Bloomfield. Our Colonelis going on leave to Luxor tomorrow - luckyman & I will be all alone in charge of theAmbulance for a few days, as Major White leftus this week to take charge of another Ambulancewhich means promotion for him to rank of ColonelI presume. Then another officer is away withseveral of our sandcarts to assist anotherAmbulance during a "stunt" which has justtaken place. Gun Brigade did not go thistime so I am not seeing anything. It onlytook place today & I don't know how theygot along yet but you will probably readabout it in a day or too in Candelo.So I am the only officer here now & will havea fairly busy time for a few days now, as I amSanitary Officer to our Brigade (not Division as Iwas for a few days) now. You know I supposemy dear what a Brigade is & also a Division -In a Brigade there are 3 Regiments, with FieldAmbulance, artillery & other small units.Therethere A Brigade is commanded by aBrigadier General. Then in a Division thereare several ^complete Brigades under a Major General.We are all rather hurt at present asour old division - Anzac Mounted Division- which has done practically all the workin ousting the Turks from Sinai in thelast 12 months & earned a fine reputation(even though I say it myself), - has now been split up & you will no longer see the word Anzacused in the papers in connection with mountedtroops but simply Imperial mounted troopsas we have been mixed up with others. OurBrigades remain distinct so my addressis the same but we now no longer haveall Australian Brigades in the Division.I suppose it's for the common good but we don'tlike our dear old Anzac Mounted Division beingsplit up. I found one of my teeth going, thisweek I so went up to our Immobile Sectionto the dentist who is attached to us & hadit filled yesterday - he is a very goodthorough man named Pye from PenrithI think. He is about 50 years of age tooso he is doing his bit with a vengeance, especiallyas he lost two sons on Gallipoli.I had a letter from Wesley this week, he iswell but does not seem enamoured withthe English winter. Can't think of any morenews this time my dear so will closewith lots of love & a hugfromYour loving sonWilf.