Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 13 September 1915 Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: No 1 Aust Gen HospitalSeptember 13th 1915.My dear mother,I received another letter thisweek from you I am glad to say, quite inregular order. I believe that the reason why Idid not receive the earlier letters was thateither they were addressed to the differentports or else that they were sent from hereto another Captain Evans who had beenhere & gone elsewhere for I went one dayto our local post office in the hospital &they had there the address of Capt Evansin the book as 7th Light Horse or something& I think my letters may have been sentthere for since I altered it I have receivedthem quite well. I have been leading aquiet life since I last wrote you, but onevery good thing has happened - I havestimulated some of the fellows to play tennis& we have joined the Heliopolis Sporting clubwhich has two very nice courts at the backof the place here so that we are able to godown easily & have a bang there. Wesley & I went for a trip this week to seeMajor Gray (Mrs Jacomb's ) son-in-law) whois at Mena House near the pyramids & thenwent on to see the Pyramids themselves. Mena Houseis about six or seven miles from Cairo & an electrictram runs there through very nice country- fields of green corn which is I think ofgreater height than most of our Australianmaize even at Jella Jella. It all dependson irrigation & is here very wide in areaso that it makes a delightful trip.We had afternoon tea at Mena Housewhich was formerly a very fine hotel & wasone of the first hospitals we had in Egypt.It is situated at the foot of the pyramids& is now taking the slighter cases & MajorGray is in charge. After afternoon tea we tookpossession of a guide & a couple of camels & madeour way to the Pyramids. I had heard so muchof them & seen them so often at a distance & inpictures that I did not take a very greatinterest in them, though it is marvellous to thinkof how the Egyptians in bygone ages transportedthe huge blocks of stone there & more than thathoisted them in the air to a height of 400feet as the largest pyramid is that height. It is possible to climb up to the top but we preferredto look at others doing it, nor did we go insideto what is called the King's Chamber wherethe mummies were kept. It is necessary to crawlon one's hands & knees through very dirty passages& we did not feel in the humor to do that althoughI believe it is well worth seeing. After seeingthe pyramids we went on to the Sphinx whichas you know is the huge carved face ofa man with the body of a lion. It is cutof out of solid granite & is a tremendousthing whose exact dimensions I forget- it seems strange to look on these thingswhich I have seen in pictures from myearliest days. After that we went into thetemple of the Sphinx which was excavatedsome years ago as it together with theSphinx itself had been buried for manycenturies by the drifting sand. One goesdown a flight of steps & then comes to theruins of this fine old temple & it proved veryinteresting, it was built of tremendousgranite blocks beautifully cut & polished& larger than any stone blocks I haveever seen. There are rows of granite pillarsmade from one piece of stone alone, & fully 15-20 feet high & each of the four sides about3 feet across. Imagine the weight of one of thosehuge blocks & the tremendous power neededto hoist them up into position even after transportingthem over the sand. There are also in the temple tombswhere mummies were placed, dark passages arrangedin tiers now haunted by niggers who wantto extract the universal "backshish" (money)by lighting them up with a candle. I tookthe photos of Wesley & myself on the camels& we rode back at quite a good pace.Camels are frightfully rough things to rideespecially when they trot, but if one risesto the trot just as on horseback it is not sobad. When they lie down in order to allowyou to alight it causes the weirdestsensation, first of all they bend theirfront legs & one frantically clutches thesaddle to prevent himself being precipatedforwards & leans well back, then downgo their hind quarters & one clutches again& leans forward, & finally the rest oftheir fore limbs are folded up & one issafe on the ground. I am very interestedin the medical work over here - I don't knowif I told you that we have a good number of typhoid fever cases in spite of theinoculation against it but not nearly so numerous asthey would have been without it, & it's courseis greatly modified by it, an being renderedmuch milder. This however renders the diagnosismuch more difficult as there are numerous otherdiseases over here which are not very welldefined & we don't know quite what they are -principally mild forms of fever which lastfor a few days & then the patient is quite wellbut, in many cases impossible to tell fromthe mild typhoid cases. We also have some malaria& odd cases of pneumonia. I am kept moderatelybusy with my work but not too much so by anymeans. I am trying to finish this letter amid oddsnatches of conversation near me & cannot wellcollect my thoughts & as the mail closes almostimmediately I will finish up so that I maynot miss it. I received a letter from Harry& Bruce this week which I was very gladto have, is but am very sorry to hear of Linda'sfurther illness & hope that the attacks will notrecur. Please thank all the family for writingcannot promise that I will write all round aspractically all I have to tell is in these letters asarranged. Best love to all & a double shareto mum from her loving son,Wilf