Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 3 July 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: No 14 General Hospital Officers' Mess Nationality: Australian Text: No. 14 AUSTRALIAN GENERAL HOSPITALA.I.F.OFFICERS' MESSJuly 3rd 1918My dear mother,I am down at Hospital for a fortnightbrushing up my medical work a little. Arrangements havebeen made recently for some of us to come here for 2 weeksinstead of leave to have a change & see a little work.It is a very pleasant change, as the hospital is situatedjust on the sea & we have plenty of swimming & the airis beautifully fresh & cool even in the summer. When Ilast wrote we were at Bethlehem & I travelled down byrail from Jerusalem. It is a very pretty trip for thefirst part of the journey through the hills of Judaea whichremind one so much of Biblical scenes. The hills arevery steep & rocky but are practically all terraced& have grape vines growing in among the stones, & in thebottoms of the valleys where there are stone sometimessprings of water, the land is under crop. Olive trees &a few other fruit trees are very numerous & the peculiardark green of the olive is very refreshing to look on.Did I tell you that I had another look roundJerusalem before leaving & saw a few more of thesights? One of the most interesting places is theGerman hostel on the Mount of Olives, amagnificent stone building, beautifully finished in every way & three stories high. It cost some millionsto build & has attached a splendid chapel with somegood paintings in it & a fine pipe organ. It isvery well finished off & has some fine Mosaicwork in it too. The most striking thing howeveris the ceiling, which has in the centre a pictureof Christ surrounded by paintings of the Apostles& at one end a picture of the Kaiser & hiswife on a throne also surrounded by picturesof saints & people & at the other a picture ofJerusalem. To my mind nothing nearerblasphemy can be imagined & I think itwell illustrates the mind of the presentruler of Germany, to thus place himselfpractically on an equal with Christ.One place I had not seen before also was theChurch of the "Ecce Homo" built, over thesite of Pilate's house & it has incorporatedin it part of the old wall of the house.It is a beautiful little chapel, the prettiestin Jerusalem I think. I saw again theMosque of Omar which is certainly oneof the finest things in the world.We took round with us some of our clerks &batmen who are only allowed to go round with an officer & they enjoyed it immensely.I am enjoying immensely sleeping in a decent bedagain & have a medical ward with 150 patientsin it, so that I am fairly well occupied, & amlearning to use a stethoscope again. The sicknessis mainly malaria & other fevers incidental tothis country & a good many debilitated cases.I find among them quite a number of the men Ihave known in the field & there is always a certainamount of bon camaradie with these men whomone we has been associated with under trying conditionsfor 3 years or so & it is good to feel it. Ialways find quite a number of my old Regimentsomewhere or other. No more tonight, my dear,I'm very well & hope you are.Don't overwork in the new home my dear,very best of love & lot of kissesfromYour loving son,Wilf.