Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 July 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 17. 7. 1916.My dear mother,Another mail has arrived & thistime it was a beauty bringing me those twomissing letters of yours, one from Em & Alice,Jack, Mrs Job & Cedric largl written aboutthe same date, & following these two more lettersfrom you one from Wesly who is convalescingat Rase-el-Tin Hospital at Alexandria &one from another medico Parry & two Life's.I was delighted to find in your later lettersthat you were convalescent & feeling fit &do hope that you will continue so.The reason why that letter of mine went so quicklyfrom Cairo was that I just caught a mailthere & avoided the delays between here & Cairo.I was awfully upset to hear of thatcatastrophe at Sy Styles, the circumstanceswere exceptionally painful, poor O Reilley musthave been in a dreadful state & as for themother her condition can be better imaginedthan described Thankyou very much foryour offers to send things to me, butmy dear I would rather you were spendingthe money on yourself or I on you than you should be still spending cash on me.But I know you would be glad to sendsomething & one of mother's cakes would bea welcome addition to our fare here. Also,my dear if you come across any Lucy Hintontobacco in tins, a tin or two would be very welcomealso as we can't buy it over here. Please thankMab very much for the socks she sent,they are beautifully done & not nearly sothick as most which is a great.advantage in this climate. You didn'tknow who Jim Wiley was - he was inmy year at Sydney & at hospital also,one of the best chaps you couldmeet. Please don't think of sendingany money for those vases for you &the tray for Mab - I am only toodelighted to be able to send yousomething & hope you will like themI thought the vases were very good - don'tthink I have seen any better, that iswhy I was so pleased to get them asyou will have something always visible inthe house to remind you of the sender. Mab will like the tray I think, it will beuseful for visiting cards, so nowall the four families will havesome brassware in their little homesto remind them of Brother Bill overthe water. We are I varied the monotonythis last week by going for a swimto the ___ with one of our squadronswhich go down each day, leavingearly in the morning & coming backat sunset. I enjoyed the day verymuch, first of all I called atthe place where the hospital boatcomes in & had a talk to one or twofellows I knew on board - onemedico comes down in charge from Is__each time & others come for the trip. ThenI joined the rest of our party under sometrees where we camped for the dayWe went in for a swim straightaway & glorious it was too as thewater is quite warm, no trace ofchilliness at all & there we stayedfor nearly an hour. Then had lunch& a smoke afterwards. While we wereresting a P & O. liner from Australiaor India passed along & of course we all rushed to the bank. A good manyof the troopers were swimming their horses& one part of them were returning along thebank after swimming the animals.McFarlane who was in charge of thistroop lined them up along the bank &they looked very well with their wavingplumes & fine horses & their dress addeda little picturesqueness as most had justsinglets & trousers on. Those who wereswimming (no bathing togs here of course) weregiven orders to remain under the water &along came the boat. She had a lotof passengers aboard principallywomen & it was nice to see white dressesagain. Of course we all coo-eed & tinsof cigarettes were thrown overboard,then you should have seen the blindrush of the lads on the horses. In theywent clothes wrist watches pipes &everything, what cared they, theclothes soon dry here & soon the waterwas alive with bedraggled men racing for the cigarettes. We must havelooked funny to the people on the ship,the officers were wearing pjamas mainlyfor the sake of convenience & I had on apair of bathing togs I had borrowed &a shirt over that to keep the sun frommy shoulders while out of the water.Wesley is up & about now at Alexandria& I am going to try & go there to be withhim for a few days - I am sure we wouldhave a good time together. I had a lettera while a go from Elsie Evans, Gwen's sister,who is rather chummy with Ernest Hughes,telling me that Gwen had gone off toFrance somewhere near Boulogne - couldnot settle down in England again afterbeing away. It is quite possible that I maygo back to the 3rd L. H. F. Ambulanceagain shortly as the officer in commandthere asked me wo if I would care to doso if a vacancy occurred & I said 'yes'as I have not been with an Ambulance much& it would be a change. A vacancy hasoccurred this week so I quite expect to goin there soon. It is 2 miles nearer- (you know what I mean) & that isan advantage also, although I shall be sorry to leave the regiment for the officersare such a good lot. Still even in soldieringone might as well get as much experienceas possible. Well goodbye my deartake care of yourself & keep well,best of love fromYour loving son,Wilf