Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 6 September 1915 Location: Heliopolis Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 1st Aust. Gen. HospitalHeliopolisSeptember 6th, 1915,My dear mother,Another mail has arrived sinceI last wrote you bringing a letter from youMab & Alice & a Sydney Mail fromthe latter which was much appreciated. Itis glorious when a mail arrives to get newsfrom home & it's branches & seems to bringAustralia very near. Everyone speaks of the greatsuccess of Australia day & how nobly Australianshave responded. I am now established here in theHospital again in a medical ward of 71 beds- I think it is the largest here & I was veryfortunate to get it. Dr. Rennie's letter whichI showed to Colonel Maundsley undoubtedlyhad a great deal to do with it. In the mainbuilding where I am we take all the sickestcases while the less serious ones are sent to ourauxiliary hospitals near by & as soon as ourown patients become convalescent we send themoff to the Auxiliary Hospitals so that we keeponly sick cases. Three trains of woundedcame here yesterday the first had over 200 casesthe second about 200 & the third a less number.It is a pitiful sight to see the poor chaps comein, some are "walking cases" who are able tocome in without aid, others are "cot cases" & haveto be carried. One sees a long stream of poortired looking men, almost all thin & haggard,some with hardly strength to drag one legafter another, slowly & painfully making their wayto the tables where they are distributed by themedical men to the various wards & auxiliaryhospitals & when they get to bed they are justas pleased as can be. I don't think I have everseen before such an utter air of utter weariness& mute dumb suffering as many of the poorfellows have. We had a very interesting trip afew days ago with another medic named Kaywho has been here for some time & knows the placewell. We went to view the old city wall which wasbuilt hundreds of years ago in the days of theCrusaders & originally surrounded the city. It isof enormous thickness & strength, a carriage &pair could almost drive on the top & it hasnumerous loopholes to fire through, manyweird ung underground passages &above grids overhanging through which boiling water & other dainties could be poured on theheads of anyone closely approaching the wall.We saw two of the gates which can be closed byhuge iron doors & on each side of them thewall projects for many feet so that anyoneapproaching could be attacked from thesides front & above. Here also was adelightful grid just above the gate & onecould pour anything down it with greatease. There were also large holes throughwhich huge stones could be rolled out &drop on the heads of the enemy, who wouldevidently have a warm reception. After havinga good look round we went along to theMooski i.e Bazaar of which I told you& I bought a very nice copper tray beautifullycarved for Pappita Job's wedding giftI have been a little worried that I have notyet sent anything yet & this just fitted inbeautifully. It is all hand-worked in factKay who was with it has watched it beingmade during his visits recently. It only cost2.0.0. & appeared well worth it. My troublenow is to pack & send it along. I want toget things here & send them home & to the variousmembers of the family when I can save some cash as I know Egyptian things are appreciated.A couple of fellows who were in our year,Murphy & Kirkwood, to two very nice fellowswent over to Gallipoli today & we gave thema send off last night in town by havingdinner at one of the restaurants there & wehad a very good time indeed. Six men whohad been in our year going through were here& we had a kind of reunion which wasvery pleasant & then we trotted round &looked at an entertainment or two sw &had quite the most enjoyable evening I have hadfor a long time - there were present Graham,Wesley, Parry, Murphy, Kirkwood & myself,just a nice little party. I am having quitea good time in my ward have some veryinteresting cases, discovered one chap withmalaria today by examining his blood whomust have caught it somewhere about Egyptas he had never been elsewhere in the tropics. It issplendid being able to follow up one's cases in thePathological department as one can do the whole thingproperly in that way. I had a run over to the campone afternoon this week to look up the fellowsover there as they were quite a nice lot & Ipromised to go over to dinner some night. We have just had just had another lot ofmedical men arrived from Australia some of whomI know, but they did not have very muchnews to tell us, matters appeared to begoing along much as usual over there.I don't think that I told you that dear oldColonel Newmarch whose name I am sure you willremember as one of my teachers at Sydney Hospitalwhere we called him Berny Newmarch has beenappointed as commanding officer of this hospital- I am so pleased because it is grand to havesomeone who knows you in authority here & heis such a kind-hearted old chap, we all lovedhim at Sydney Hospital. I fear th me thatmy news is exhausted, mother & all thebairns, so will conclude with the best oflove to all the family & a double sharefor mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.Many thanks Alice old chook for the SydneyMail - it has been very welcome.