Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 23 October 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Regiment 3rd Light Horse Brigade Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th Light Horse Regiment,3rd Light Horse Brigade,Anzac,October 23rd, 1915.[* Each ofyou pleaselet mehave thisback soonso send iton withoutdelay. *]My dear mother,Here we are again in a different spotonce more, the reason being that one of the regimentalmedical officers of this Brigade who has been here formore than five months became sick & was sent awayfor a spell & I came up here to relieve him as theambulances of a Brigade supply medical men when necessaryI am only attached here temporarily till the previousmedico is better. We are on the top of a hill here calledcalled Rhodadendron a very pretty spot with asplendid view of the surrounding country & oceanIt is about half an hours walk from theambulance & is a fairly steep ascent in places. BeforeI forget please address all letters to the ambulanceas before, because I can easily get them there & maybe returned to it at any time. My quarters hereare very good & very well protected. I form herewhat is called a regimental aid post towhich all sick & wounded from the trenchescome. There is one fairly large room dug into the side of the cliff hill which has onlya gentle slope at this part, & this forms theconsulting room & surgery as it would be calledin private practice or dressing station as itis called here & is about twelve feet square.My own dug out adjoins it & is covered bya roof in common with the other, & is quitea spacious concern compared with anyothers I have seen, about three times thesize of my former one. Why! I can standup in it & then have a foot or two to spareabove my head. In addition I don't sleepon the ground but have some hessian stretchedbetween two pieces of timber forming quitea good bed & a good many small boxes &pigeon holes to put things in. Numerouspictures, comic & otherwise, cut frommagazines adorn the wall & are relicsof the former occupant. I have a sickparade aga twice daily, 9 a.m. & 4.45 p.m.& generally have about twenty men to treat.There is a good deal of dysentery, also peculiarepidemic kind of jaundice, sore throats &soon, to say nothing of debility as some ofthe men who have been here a long time getrun down from the monotony chiefly I thinkstill on the whole their health is by no meansbad. I have a corporal & two men to assist do dressings, give out medicine & so on.Very few wounded men come along just atpresent, large batches only occur duringan attack by one side or the other. Only oneman has come in wounded since my arrival twodays ago & he was struck by a shrapnelbullet in the upper thigh, by no means aserious wound. I also have to look after thesanitary arrangements of the camp & seethat everything is properly carried out in thatrespect. The weather during the last few dayshas become very boisterous & much colder,keen northerly winds come rushing overthe hills & make us thankful that wehave warm things to put on. The days alsoare becoming short & the long eveningsrather trying as there is some difficultyin procuring lighting apparatus I havebeen fortunate as we have had quite anumber of candles in our chest here & areentitled to draw more as "medicalcomforts" because it is necessary formedical purposes to have sharp light.At the ambulance they had a numberof hurricane lanterns which gave quitea good light but we are not quite so welloff here. I am still reading Pendermes& it is a great standby for readingmatter is short here & we have a gooddeal of spare time during which we read if anymaterial is available. I had thoughtof writing & asking Aunty Lily to sendme out some of the latest Englishpapers such as "Land & Water" "WeeklyTimes" & so on as the distance is notso great but I found that it takesa month for mails to come fromEngland as they go first to Egyptwhich they reach in about ten days& are then re-sorted & sent on here& that takes some time. So I thoughtit hardly worthwhile. I hope to receivesome mail from home again soon as Iwrote to the hospital soon after myarrival here & asked one of the menthere to forward the letters on, & allowingtwo weeks for my letter to go there &two to come back I might haveletter in another week or two as I have been here nearly three weeks now. I havea splendid batman here, very willing & veryattentive, brings me tea to bed in the morning,hot shaving water & hot water to wash inafterwards, tells me when meals are ready,brings tea & hot toast in the afternoon &is really a treasure. His dug out is justnext to mine so all is very convenient. Wehave quite a good "mess" here, only five ofus dine together, colonel, major, adjutant,quartermaster & myself. The other officerslive in the trenches & their dugouts arethere also so that they rarely come downhere to headquarters. They evidently boughtlargely from the canteen recently so wefare quite luxuriously. The front trencheshere are about four hundred yards awayfrom the Turks which is quite a longdistance, as in some cases only fiveor ten yards separate the opposingtrenches but neither side does the othermuch harm by rifle fire though theyfire off a good number of rounds purposefullyat night as they both keep under cover& daren't show their heads abovethe parapet. By means of periscopeshowever they easily observe eachothers position in safety by merely pushingthe top of the periscope over thetrench & looking at the bottom endyou understand the principle I supposemum, its a piece of wooden tubing 3 or 4feet long with a piece of glass in thetop end & one in the bottom, arrangedat such angles that a view of thelandscape straight ahead is reflectedback from the upper one into the lowerone & from the lower one into the observer'seyes. I often wonder, my dear, if you areworrying as much as I feared you mightdo, or whether you have ^settled down & are contentin the thought that I am doing whatis right. It is you who are makingthe sacrifice, in undergoing anxietyat my being here & I do hope that youare quite resigned to it. That redcross which I wear on my arm & whichis the symbol of Him who gave his life for others serves to remind me constantlythat I am here to try & relieve the sick &wounded & if anything befalls me in sodoing there should be no regrets at all &I hope my dear that you can look atit in the same light as I do. Not thatI think that the risk is so great, forit is not to a medical man who isnot compelled to rush at a trench whichis dealing out death & destruction likethose brave fellows in the ranks haveto do & I am looking forward to meetingyou at no far distant period, but Iwant you to feel reconciled & in fact gladthat I am undergoing some risk in orderto help sick & wounded men, & you mayquite rely on me not to undergo more thannecessary for I am by no means a fire eater.This is Sunday night again but no churchservice up here this week but I can imagineyou & father going to the little kirk & back homeagain & hope that the country round'Fairview' has a fine greenish tinge, strangeto think of you entering summer & us winter& here I am sitting in my old dugout (withthe wind whistling in the corners & thesound of rifles popping, exactly likea "catherine wheel" with occasional"squibs" going off) conveyed in spiritright away to Australia. Then thereis Harry Linda & family in their cottage (theregoes a big bunger somewhere a.d.o. bomb)discussing W Williams sermon & trying notto wake the baby - (the little dear it is so pretty)Ern & Alice amongst the Newcastle smoke-their kids (beg pardon) are sure to be awake althoughthey are very fine children both of 'em. I wonderhas Gwen broken her neck over the verandahyet, or Ron had choked himself with a piece of porkor a loaf of bread & if he is still as like his fatheras he always wasn't, then theres Suey &Arthur just returned from Lismore heightswhere their elders live & sitting in that littleback parlor, & old Johnny in his dug out helpingto produce the stuff that feeds us all - goodold bully beef, & I hope that they all havea thought for me sometimes as I knowthey do. My best love to all and a doubleshare for mother from his loving son, Wilf.