Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 19 April 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th LH Regiment.19.4.1916 My dear mother,Another mail arrivedtoday containing two letters fromyou which I was very glad to receive butsorry that you did not seem too well or intoo good spirits in your last (9.3.16).Really when one sees life as it is it makes himvery disappointed - you who have spentthe greater part of your life in helpingothers on & denying yourself oughtaccording to what one would considerfair to be enjoying your later yearsin a suitable spot & with your childrenare within easy range & then bythe force of circumstances you arecompelled to drag on year afteryear in such an uncongenialspot as Candelo & far removedfrom all your children & to crown allyour youngest is engaged in thisworld slaughter. It does seemhard, my dear, & I do wish that I could alter matters or even be near youbut at present such is prevented.However I grow hopeful that the warwill not last so very long now - I shouldthink another year would bring us withinsight of the end & then home again -you must try & keep your healthgood to greet me home again. Andthen perhaps you may be able tosettle down near me & the others & enjoya little well earned content. I do feelsorry for you in that same little spotwith the same dull unending monotony.I wish you would take a holiday & seesomeone in Sydney about that back ofyours & then pay a visit all round toyour bairns ending up in Lismore, itwould be beautiful there in the winter orspring. You were asking about my work- I'm afraid my dear it's very uninterestingat present as I only treat the menof this regiment & the variety ofdisease is not great. However I havea small a hospital here where I treat those who are moderately sick & if theybecome really ill send them on to theambulance & from there to hospital.But medical work occupies onlya very small part of my time & thechief difficulty is to occupy it decentlyat all. You will probably have readof a little expedition which thisregiment made last week. UnfortunatelyI could not go as the Brigadearranged for a section of the Ambulanceto go. It was a long ride somesixty miles over sand to a spotwhich had been located by ouraeroplanes near the end of aTurkish road into the desert, wherewells were being dug in order toprovide water for a Turkish armyon its way to Egypt - if it werefoolish enough to attempt the task.The party found the spot withoutdifficulty & prepared their attackcarefully. The Turkish camp wasin front of some low sandhills & ourmen formed up behind these & some ofthem advanced over the ridge but the main party swept round the lower endof the hills at full gallop & rushed onthe camp. The Turks had been alarmedthat morning by the fact that our aeroplanehad gone over their camp twice, & duringthese visits of the flying machine alwaysrushed away into the bushes to escapebombs which the aeroplane had anasty habit of dropping. They were justreturning from one of these alarms whentheir sentry on the hills caught sightof this body of men advancing onthem at full gallop in a cloud ofdust & they took to their heels withright good will. Then their ensueda running fight & the fugitives werechased & compelled to surrenderone by one. However about 15 ofthem were making for the head of thevalley & a small number of our horsemanrushed round & headed them off &after a rifle duel at about two hundredyards during which several Turks were shot they surrendered. What ashock those Turks must have hadwhen our boys dashed at themunexpectedly. They (the Turks) had two sets ofapparatus wh for Artesian bores& had completed three bore holesof great depth & lined with concretethough they had found nowater. Both the wells & the boringapparatus were destroyed & ourmen made off with their prisonersamong whom was an Austrianengineer officer. Our casualtieswere quite insignificant. I believewe are not allowed to state thembut the plural number could notbe used of them. The Turks lost6 killed & 6 wounded & about33 prisoners were taken - quitea nice little stunt wasn't itmy dear? Wesley & I spent lastSunday with some friends atan Ambulance some miles away& incidentally had a dip insome water which is near them- what that water is I leave you to guess. I do hope you keep thatpair of small ornaments for yourselfI bought them specially for you- if there is any difficulty in regardto the rest I will send some morewhen I go to Cairo & I want to sendyou some more as you are so keenon the brassware. Best of loveto all the families fromYour loving son,Wilf. I hope you are keeping all my letters,Mum - they will be the only recordsof my trip that I will have