Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 6 September 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Syrian Desert Nationality: Australian Text: 06. 09. 1916.My dear mother,Your welcome letter of July 19thcame to hand this morning - I think it wasa straggler from the last mail as I receivedone from you only a few days ago. I amvery pleased indeed that you receivedthe vases & like them - I think itwould be very much better if youkept the pair yourself - I wanted youto have them, then everyone would be fixedup Also Linda would have a pair & Aliceanother & Mab the tray which Ihope she will like. Please do notthink of suggesting payment for them -it is Wilfred's gift to mother & he wouldlike to give her a lot more. Was awfullysorry to hear that father had had anattack of gastroenteritis or whatever it was,I wished I were there when reading yourletter & you were saying you had jumpedup several times - we often have similarcomplaints in the military & I would haveliked to help you fix him up. Glad to hear he was better & all fear ofappendicitis removed - it would certainlybe abominably awkward to get anything ofthat kind in Candelo necessitating immediateoperation. Fancy Edgar Holtzhanzarstarting business on his own - very foolishI think at present as his name willbe sure to go against him & with moneyas tight as it is during the war, he willhave a hard time.Next morning.Had to close up temporarily as tea came along. I am now quitesettled down at the Ambulance & comfortable. I brought mybatman - Smith - with me as he has been with X me for 12 monthsnow almost, he is a very good boy & looks after me well.I had a little palm leaf humpy built the first day & roofedover with waterproof sheets. I have a hospital mattress tosleep on & it feels very comfy after lying on sand coveredwith a waterproof sheet for so long. x Wesley is almostwell now & is in one of the hospitals & expects to moveoff to France in a few days - lucky dog. We arenot very busy here at present as only a few sickcome in from the Regiments each day & the lessserious cases are kept here & treated & those moreserious sent on to the Base. Then there is a certainamount of work to be done in keeping the Ambulancein working order but this is not excessive. Ihave been out for rides several time since I camehere but these are not very interesting as thedesert is very similar everywhere & of courseheavy to ride over. "Hods" are very numerousjust about here in fact within a three mileradius there are about seven or eight, eachcontaining a large number of date palms, thearea covered generally being about an acre.We sometimes ride along to one just tocollect & eat the ripe dates on the trees,as all the palms just now are ladenwith huge bunches of dates, for the mostpart unripe, but a certain number ripeneach day & these we seek. They are verynice too when properly ripe & black.There are two varieties here, the usual one beinggreenish or brownish when unripe & blackwhen ripe & the other variety yellow. Ihave visited my old Regiment a couple oftimes & had afternoon tea with them &one day went with the Colonel from hereto Brigade headquarters & had quitea nice cup of tea & sweet biscuitsjust out from Port Said. Did I evertell you of the road which the Turks madein order to drag their heavy guns over thedesert? They cut down innumerable palmbranches & placed them in line along the sand & these when covered with a superficial layer of sandmade quite a firm road over which they dragged theirheavy 8.2 howitzars with mules or camels. Therumor had it that they were able to be taken dividedinto 3 pieces & dragged by 12 mules in carts butI cannot say that is true or not. Theymust have suffered terribly on their return trip, aswe drove them on to a waterless tract where they wouldhave to travel about 20 miles without water & walkingas they were in this heat it must have been terribleespecially after suffering a severe defeat. I hada letter from Walker with your last - he isdoing fairly well in Tasmania, also Auntie Lilywho writes some very nice letters. I'm x comingquite to know the English branches of the familywhich seems strange after never previouslycorresponding. Must close my dear as themail is leaving soon & lunch coming on- have had several interruptions duringwriting of this. Hope father is OK & younot knocked up after those bad nights.Best love to all not forgettingmother extra bit fromHer loving sonWilf.Am writing to Mab next mail I hope, had aletter from her last week.