Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 21 May 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 21.5.1916My dear mother,I wrote my last letter to you only a fethree or four days ago but last night we had a largemail & I thought would write a few lines today to tellyou that I was so pleased to have two letters from youone from Mab, one from Mrs Job, one from Cedric & one fromdear old Gordon Walker who is doing quite well in Tasmania.I also received two Sydney Mails from Ern, a Life from you &a copy of Land & Water & Bystander which I have sent fromCairo each week. So I had quite a splendid mail.What a lot of news you had to tell me in your letter of April 6th.Harry with his car, Bloomfield's selling theirs, cousins in khaki& so on, your poor hand must have been very tired I'm sorryto say that the recruiting sargeant who visited you confusedme with the other Captain Evans who was medical officer ofthe 7th L.H. Regt & to whom my letters were sent at first.He became sick on Anzac went to England & finallyhad a trip to Australia & was only 3 days there when hewas sent back to Egypt & is now in the 13th a FieldAmbulance near here. Strange to say Colonel Arnottwas in command of that regiment at the time sohe has had two Evans as medicos to his regiment.You said W West Chemist of Bega had fought at Tel-el-Kebir -it is strange that only yesterday that some fellows I know who have just come from Tel-el-Kebir- for we have a big training camp there now - spokeof visiting the trenches where the famous battle was fought.& were describing to me the type of trench they usedthen although they are very largely filled in with sandnow. I hope you received that shell safely as itcost me a lot of trouble & I want you to keep itfor me. It fell in the vicinity of my dressing station& I secured it & kept it for some time as I wanteda good shell case, then at the evacuation we hadorders to take no curios but I put it in my pack& left other items of clothing rather than it althoughit made my pack much heavier. Sister Gibbinswho took it to Australia for me was a very kindhearted little thing & was going home on transport& wanted to know if I had anything to send, soI thought it would be safest sent thus. Youwill notice the shell cap which screws off, whenthe shell explodes it flies off & all the contents- large bullets of which I sent a sample fly out &spread out many yards. I think it is a75 m.m. shell - the Turks had one of thoseguns which played on Rhodadendron Ridge& kept us always on the qui vive. I amable to write today because it is cool & theflies are not troublesome. When I last wrote it was sweltering & I had no energy for anythingbut a couple of days ago a Northerly wind sprangup & since then the change has been marvellous &it resembles a rather warm spring day in Australia.I'm a bit worried about your health as you sayyou are thin - I sincerely hope with the winter youwill regain weight & that a timely holidaywill do all the needful for you. All the letters Ihave from Australia about the fellows in my yearwho stayed behind speak of how well they areall doing. It is rather annoying for those who havegone to think of the others establishing themselves firmlyin good practices & gaining good experiencewhile we are doing so little real medical workbut after all we have the satisfaction of knowing thatwe have done the right thing, although Wesley & Iget very annoyed sometimes when we hear of somefellows doing a big practice & many operations whilewe ourselves become more out of practice eachmonth. However I suppose it will alladjust itself in time. We have appliedfor leave to go to Cairo together for threedays & hope it will be granted as thechange would be very welcome.Cheer up my dear, & get yourselfin good nick for that trip to England with me later on.Best of lovefromYour loving son,Wilf. There is another letter dated 17/5/16. Very littlenews in it - Chief thing they had tokeep their thermometers in water whichwas 106 - & they would burst at 110he said same thing to Mrs Job beforeI left Sydney - but left this outdid not like telling me the temperatureWas 122 that day - poor fellows -God help them all - they areenduring plenty on that desert.FridaySo glad to get your note & learnthat Linda is so much better &all going on well at home. November 1916