Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 2 March 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 2. 3. 1916My dear mother,Since I last wrote you I have changedmy abode as I informed you we were intending todo in my last letter. We have been so unsettled duringthe change that I have not written before this week &it is now Thursday. The Censorship here is very strict& we are told not to put the name of the unit on the topof the letter, though I am with the same regiment & ifyou continue to address my letters to that regimentc/o Intermediate Base, Egypt they will always find me,with a little luck! I did quite a lot of shopping beforecoming away as there are always quite a number oflittle things to get before leaving on these jaunts & Igenerally find myself fairly well supplied with thingswhich other people do not possess when we settle down.We have two hurricane lamps in our A.M.C. things & no-oneelse has a lamp of any kind, & I seem to possess theonly books in camp. I brought two or three of Kingsleys withme & some Dickens & Victor Hugo. I had a fairly busy timealso purchasing enamel ware for the mess which took a gooddeal of time & I spent several afternoons in town visitingGroppi's for afternoon tea on each occasion as they alwaysgive one something nice, their coffee is particularly good.The cakes are only piastre (1 d) each) & the tea or coffee costs 2 piastres (5d). Our regiment camedown by different trains most of them leavingsomewhere in the middle of the night or earlymorning. The tents were struck & packed theprevious day & all the baggage put on wagonspreparatory for leaving. The train I was to leavein was timed to go about 8 o'clock in the morningbut was to come in at 6 o'clock for loading.The troops were to leave camp at 4.30 a.m.& march down though it was only about a mileaway. Said I to myself, if I go at that time& my sleeping bag & blankets are packedup the previous day I'll have very little sleep,but why should I not sleep. So I bethoughtmyself & suggested to the O.C. (commanding officer) that I it wasnot necessary for me to march out with thetroops & suggested that I might keep mysleeping bag & blankets & not put themon with the others, sleep all night & thenrun down to the station in a motor car aboutseven o'clock in the morning. He consented & sowhile all the others had practically no sleep,I with the veterinary officer slept all nightbreakfasted early in the morning & then wentcomfortably to the railway. We had a goodrun down in the train & then commenced work pitching camp. Our tent was up before nightfall& I was fixed up quite well here with the veterinaryofficer Captain Worthington. We have a freshspot in the desert to camp in, & the sand hereis fine & soft, unfortunately blows about easily.Today there is a fine wind storm & you canimagine what it is like, the Sharp St Corner inCooma was a green field compared to it.The sand penetrates almost everywhere, earseyes mouth clothes. I can't tell you muchabout the place but we are quite close toa certain strip of salt water which runs throughthe sand here & on which ships go e & bigships at that. I had a dip there yesterdayfor the sake of cleanliness. It is funny towatch the boys running down when aship is signalled to see it pass. I madeone myself yesterday & raced down to seea huge liner gliding by. Bob Taylorwho was at Prince Alfred with us is in aField Ambulance not far away & he cameto see us yesterday & we returned his calltoday & in doing so walked into Asiawhich sounds quite a lot but in realityit isn't far from here to that continent. I am still Mess Secretary & am nowrunning the mess with our own batmen & cook& acting as chief steward myself. There isa grocery canteen not far away & I have becomea sort of housewife ordering so many b bottlesof pickles & pounds of biscuits every dayor so. All the boys are pleased with theirtucker so far which is a good thing.It's bedtime so must conclude with bestlove to all & your own you usual sharefromYour loving son,Wilf. There is no fighting or indication ofit here so don't worry my dear.