Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 29 August 1915 Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Zeitoun,August 29th, 1915. My dear mother,you may receive my lastletter at the same time as this, but Ihope that it managed to catch somemail or other that I did not know of.I'm afraid this will be a short letteras there is very little extra to tell you.I have been however to another of theinteresting places in Egypt - the nativebazaar. It is situated not veryfar from the centre of the city, & thestreet which leads to it the El Mooskiis one of the main streets of the nativepart of the town & one of the oldestbut is exceedingly narrow. We drovealong in a garry, two other fellowsfrom here accompanying me & whenwe reached the bazaar walked throughit. The bazaar itself consists merelyof a large number of excessivelynarrow alleyways for the mainpart not wide enough to admit avehicle & each separate alley or street contains shops which sell only onevariety of stuff for instance there isthe scent bazaar which is really theonly one we had a good look at, & thegoldsmiths' bazaar, the silk bazaar& so on. The shops are very small as arule consisting usually of one roomfacing directly on the street. We pulledup at the scent bazaar & enquiredabout the scents. We were given threeseats & the shopkeeper sent for threecups of Persian tea, (we voted for thatinstead of coffee) & when this came wesat round & talked, sipped the tea& smoked amber cigarettes whichhe also provided us with. This was allgratis & so far no mention was madeof such a thing as buying or sellinggoods. However when the tea wasfinished we gradually approachedthe delicate subject. The shopkeeperwas a young pale flabby obeseEgyptian - they are nearly allfat pale & flabby - who spokeEnglish well. Fle He anointed thesleeves of our jackets with variousvarieties of perfume which smelt so delightful that I decided to buysome to send home. It is supposedto be very concentrated & good & isexpensive about 2/- a dram. They saythat it can be diluted by putting onedram in one pint of spirit & is thenquite strong enough but candidly Idon't believe them. I got some amberwhich is the native made scent & ottoof roses which I am sending onbut am rather doubtful if youwill get them as I understandthat parcels are often pilferedor lost. After buying these we were fellinto the clutches of one of the Governmentpaid native guides, who dragged usoff rather against our will to see avery old house once occupied byMehemet Ali or some of other of theold Sultans. It had been a veryfine old place with a courtyard inthe centre, roof garden on top &various winding stairs, fine dininghall of tremendous height withbeautifully emblazoned ceiling. Allthe fine old decorative work hadgone however & for the most part bare walls remained. We then took agarry back to the city & came homelate for dinner. Yesterday afternoonWesley & I went to the HelouanConvalescent Hospital about 18 milesfrom Cairo to have dinner with Grahamwho is stationed there. It was in peacetime a fashionable hotel & is situatedon an eminence which attracts orcomes in the way of all the breezeswhich blow so it is much cooler thanmost other places. There is a picture showthere, three times a week for the benefitof the patients & it happened to beperforming Il last night so we satout on a verandah & looked onat it until 8 o'clock when dinnerwas ready. Dinner was served inthe open as is the custom in thiscountry with absolutely no coveringoverhead & was quite a decent meal.Parry & Molleson who came overwith us were also there & we hadquite a pleasant time, but I feltsleepy for what reason I don'tknow. Coming back in the trainWesley & I had a carriage to ourselves & we lay down & went off tosleep for part of the time. Today isSunday & I have had quite anice rest this morning. I did notdo my usual camp inspectionbut lolled about & read theEnglish Times which has justarrived & is only about a weekold (I always get the weekly editionof the Times here as one gets a full& authentic account of the warwhere as the news we get in Egyptianpapers is very meagre & the papersare almost as bad as those in Candelo& Cooma). Then I read a little Historyof the Jews & Egypt & snoozeda little & now am writing thisjust before lunch but must nowadjourn to indulge in the latter.Next morningI went out yesterday afternoon withWesley & we picked up a couple of nursesat No TT Hospital who had recentlycome across from Prince Alfred & tookthem for a run to the zoo which Ihave previously described to you. wIt was a glorious afternoon, really one ofthe coolest we have had so far & thegreenery & annuals were such a changefrom our dry barren desert. We hadvery nice afternoon tea & came backto the hospital about seven o'clockdropped the nurses there & went onto the city, too late for church though.So we walked round & explored theplace a little & then went into theEzbekiah gardens & listened to If oneof the regimental bands which wasplaying there. These gardens are small& in the centre of the city but arevery pleasant to sit in & the band wasa very fine one, which I had previouslyheard playing at No 1 Hospital, asthey perform there nearly every eveningfor the benefit of the patients & thedoctors also, just at the end of dinner.This particular one belonged to the 26thBattalion & they played the Te Deumvarious national anthems & patrioticmusic. You may not know that theband attached to a regiment actsas stretcher bearers in actual warfare. We wandered about a little more afterthis had some coffee & came home.I have had some very pleasant news today- am going back to the main hospital.I became very tired of it out here as thework was not very congenial, consisting ofsick parade in the morning, just treatingcoughs & colds & such like, then camp inspectionto see that it was clean, no really goodmedical work at all. The commanding officerof the hospital has recently been changed &Colonel Maundsley from Melbourne is at presentin charge & he is a dear old chap. He knewDr. Rennie fairly well in fact taught him &I went to see him & showed him Dr. Rennies' note& he was very nice & told me that he wouldbring me in as soon as possible & I havejust seen an order for another man to relieveme tomorrow. A mail came in today, but noletters for me again - it's absolutely disgracefulin my opinion - when a fellow comes away to dohis little bit, it's the best the Governmentcan do to supply his letters to him decently -it's now 6 weeks since I arrived. I amsending you some postcards of the zoo & alsoof Heliopolis. Much love to all fromYour loving son,Wilf.