Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 15 September 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 15. 9. 1916.My dear mother,Your The wattle blossoms enclosed inyour letter of 4th August arrived in good conditionyesterday bringing quite an Australian touch intothe atmosphere, & was glad to hear that fatherwas improving though slowly & that you yourselfwere recovering from the heavy tax on yourown resources. It is a pity that you could nothave arranged to have extra help to do the workso that you could have had Em & Alice withyou for a while as it would have been pleasantfor you all & good for you too if the necessaryassistance could have been obtained, butwithout that of course impossible. You speak ofa scarcity of ham & bacon in Candelo & I thinkwe are partly responsible for that as baconforms part of our daily ration because itkeeps so well & I only wish I could sendmy share along to you for I would bequite content to see no more bacon for manya long day. Since I last wrote you wehave moved camp, not so very many miles,but it necessitated building ourselves newhumpies & we are not quite finished the job yet. Smith my batman has fixed me up very well thoughby splitting a huge beam brought across by the Turksinto four & using these as corner posts. The sideswere filled in by upright palm branches & the roofmade from two waterproof sheets & it is quitecool & comfortable. The old caravan routewhich has for thousands of years seen the tradeof Egypt pass across the desert to Palestine& Abyssinia & Greece forms consists of a depression in thedesert which has been padded down by thefeet of the camel convoys & the sand is heresomewhat firmer than the rest of the desert.There are wells at occasional intervals but inparts there are many waterless miles to becovered & I understand that in the old daysthe inhabitants of the country made their livingby selling water to the caravans & travellers.At Katia where there was so much fightingthere was one of the main sources of watersupply. The Nile in past centuries entered thesea far to the East of it's present positionsomewhere in the region about 30 miles eastof the canal I believe. Old ruins arescattered along the route also, morenumerous nearx the canal & the old mouthof the river. It was along this route that Joseph & Mary travelled & the well namedafter them at Matorrhea near Heliopoliswhich I have previously mentioned to youwas one of the stage posts. The Turks intheir recent attack made use of this oldtrack also to bring over their heavyguns & they improved it by cuttingdown palm branches & placing them across it& covering them lightly with sand. In thesofter places they were compelled to uselarge beams for the heavy guns & wehave found very large numbers of thesein places in diminsions some 8 or 10 feet longby 1 feet wide & 1 or 2 inches thick.Their transport must have been hugetask & when one sees the number of shellcases & the huge heavy boxes in whichthey were brought it makes one realizethe immensity of the task they undertook& the really splendid way it was for themost part organized. I have settled downin the Ambulance pretty well now & am gettingaccustomed to it's routine & learning thingsabout it's working which will doubtless beuseful. The weather here has moderated very much during the last month & is nowreally splendid. It is a little warm in the sunbetween 8 & 10 a.m. & then a breeze straightfrom the Mediterranean comes up & it isbeautifully cool. It is much better here thanat Serapeum as we are nearer the sea, & it isvery much cooler than stuffy Cairo with it'sclosely packed population. In addition we moveabout here in short trousers & shirts which wecan't do in Cairo & the addition of a jacketmakes one very uncomfortable. I am enclosinga photo of myself taken at Bally Bunionsome weeks ago in front of my tent which Ihope you will like, also one of CharleyWesley at Alexandria recovering from hisillness - but it is a frightful one of thepoor beggar & he does not look himselfat all. Hope you are all well now &cheerful with very best love fromYour loving sonWilf.