Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 1 October 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 1.10.16.My dear mother,It is quite a cool and peaceful Sabbathmorning & we are lazing about reading & dozing & wewould enjoy it I think if every other day didn'tbear too close a resemblance to Sunday & we really dida good days work occasionally. I do sincerely hopethat you are better & look forward to the next mailto bring better news of your health, that is if it isreal news and not faked for my benefit. We arestill ensconsced in our little spot here & are comfortable& I wish I could send along to you snapshots of itbut the trouble is that films are very difficult toobtain & when we do have them the next troubleis to get them developed & I have a couple ofspools waiting to go to Cairo when I or anyoneelse from here obtains leave. We have quite agood number of visitors at the Ambulance hardlya day passes but one person drops in sometimesa medico from one of the regiments, or the Veterinaryofficer or the Brigade Major who is MajorDangar one of the well known Singletonfamily & a very good fellow he is too. He helda commission in a Hussar regiment in Englandin days gone by I believe but enlisted fromAustralia as Captain. The Colonel from here & I rode over to an Adjacent Light HorseBrigade one afternoon to see some friends weboth know & on the way over stopped at a"hod" & had a fine feed of dates which werethe best I have seen. Beith who is the medicoof the particular regiment we went to see wasin the same year as myself and we hadquite a pleasant chat. We called at theAmbulance also, as our Colonel was a Majorthere before he came to us & consequently knewmost of the people there & I know Damonwho was a Sydney man. I walked overto see my old regiment yesterday & hadafternoon tea & just wandered roundfrom headquarters officers' mess to eachof the squadron officers' messes gossipingon the way round & trying to pick upany current rumors or disseminate anyI knew, as one of our chief delightsis telling or listening to rumors - mostof them entirely without foundation, butthe first greeting is always - "Any news?"I also went one afternoon to see an Englishdoc. in a Scotch battery which is attachedto us - a funny looking old bird he is& he asked us to go over & though we triedto dodge it we couldn't very well manage it.We didn't like his appearance too much & that was the reason - he was arather scruffy looking seedy old chapof 40 or 50 years with the appearance ofa Sooky. However he improved withacquaintance & his C.O. was rather aninteresting man, friend of Lord Churchill's& so on, at least the doc. said so.We quite unexpectedly had a heavy shower ofrain in the middle of the night this week& of course no provision is made here forsuch contingencies - the men were all sleepingout in the open & we in our humpies &fortunately mine had too waterproofsheets on top, but the rain soon beatthrough the palmy sides & commencedto soak my blankets so I wasreluctantly compelled to rise & dump mythings under another waterproof. Justas I rose I managed to stand undera stream of water which was pouringthrough an opening in my roof & I receivedit down my back. However my place didn'tget very wet & I found that two of my blanketswere dry & I spent a fairly comfortablenight but how the poor beggars managedwho had no roof or only a palm roof Idon't know- went wet I suppose. We have had no German aeroplane over for aweek now - rumor says that they are evacuatingEl Arish or at any rate some prisoners whocame in said so. Aeroplanes are wonderfulthings - just imagine when we are on one ofthese treks of ours in the middle of thedesert a plane suddenly swoops down on usto within about 40 yards from the ground& drops a message telling what it hasseen over the enemies position & then soarsaway again. And then there is the wirelesswhich is usually carried & as soon as campis fixed up, so is the wireless & communicationis got with headquarters away at thebase. Then every regiment keeps in touchwith its neighbour or it's own squadronsby heliographs which flash their messagesfrom one hill top to another. Reallymodern war is a wonderful thing.But I must conclude hoping bothyou and father are quite well now & withmuch love fromYour loving sonWilf.My dear if you ever want to send anythingsomething of the sweet variety is alwaysappreciated as we find it difficult toobtain here so when you have time again a cakeor some butterscotch would be greatly appreciated but not if youare tired.