Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 11 November 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Tripoli Nationality: Australian Text: Tripoli, 11.11.1918(Syrien My dear mother,I hope you like the writing paper capturedin the local town, it is certainly a very fortunate discovery asmy supplies were becoming short. The rainy season has commencedagain & you may imagine me squatting inside a little bivouac& hoping the wet wont come in. Since I last wrote wehave left Damascus & have travelled in all about 160miles. When I last wrote I knew we were leaving butof course could not say so. We moved out ofDamascus in a Northerly direction & reached Homson the way to Aleppo & 100 miles North of Damascusin 4 days. Other troops had preceded us to Aleppo& we were on our way to give a hand in cleaningmatters up in that region. But very fortunatelythe day before we reached Homs, the news camethrough that Turkey had asked for & been grantedan armistice. So our journey ended at Homs &we remained there for a few days. It was veryfortunate for us too that the armistice wasconcluded as we were continuing our marchnorthward at the rate of about 25 miles aday & there is no fun in that for anyone.After spending a few days at Homs we were ordered to Tripoli where we now are - on the sea coastabout 60 miles North of Beirut, in order to renderthe supply problem easier, as you may imagine thetask of supplying us with rations 100 or 200 milesaway from landing places & railways is no easymatter. The motor lorry is a marvellous piece ofmechanism & it takes hundreds of themto keep divisions supplied at great distancesfrom their bases.When we left Damascus we travelled at first throughopen plains covered with vineyards & then enteredthe Eastern slopes of the Lebanon ranges by anarrow pass which wound round between steephills on either side. The gorge which it followedopened out to a cultivated basin some 30 milesfrom Damascus at a place called Kuteife &here I stayed a day or two evacuating oursick back to the hospitals in Damascusby means of motor Ambulances. Leaving thisbasin we gradually ascended the slopes of the outerLebanon until we reached Nebk a village nearly5000 feet above sea level. It is a pretty countrytown containing about 3000 Mohammedans & 1000Christian Syrians. Wandering through the townin search of eggs & grapes, I was accosted by some children who wanted to sell me some. Theyspoke English & I went in to buy some eggs & wasimmediately surrounded by quite a large family ofEnglish speaking Christians who were all very excitedabout our arrival. There were three blind women inthe family & they were conducting a school oflittle girls & boys in English. It was the remnantof the mission which had existed in the townfour years previously & which had been swept awayby the tide of war. These women however hadkept the remnants together & you can imaginetheir joy at being released from Turkish rule.They had quite a number of bright faced girls& boys in the school & I had to ask themquestions about geography & so on. Then theteacher made them sing a hymn to me inEnglish & it did sound quaint to hear itin a foreign town in the midst of this countrywhich we have always associated withMohammedanism. I bought some eggs fromthem & gave them all the sugar I had &most of my tea as they were the chiefthings they desired. They haven't seen sugar for years. From Nebk I pushed onto Homs picking up sick on the way & wasvery glad to reach it. The last daysmarch was 46 miles for the men as therewas not sufficient water for the horses enroute so you can imagine how tired theywere when they arrived at last.Homs is quite a big town, has a tremendousmosque, a Protestant church (Presbyteriantoo I believe) & quite a few decent buildings.But it was dirty & the houses "buggy'too & I was glad that we camped outsidethe town. It is a most malarious placealso & we were not sorry to leave it.We moved down here to Tripoli in fairly easystages - the first part of the way over stonybarren hills, but later descending to thecoast over magnificently fertile wellwatered slopes. Glorious country it is & shouldbe rich & prosperous instead of being poor &full of a starving population. Give meAustralia though there is too much malariain it for me. One day we camped alongthe seashore, a lovely site for a camp, &didn't we enjoy the sea bathing though the season is rather late. Our permanent camp is onthe hills overlooking Tripoli, among huge olivegroves. The mountains of Lebanon are behind us- magnificent peaks rising sheer upwards fromthese foothills, their peaks wreathed in mist& in places covered in snow, - below is the sea &the white roofs of the town of Tripoli. At presenta couple of tramps & a white hospital shipare lying in the roadstead. Just as atGallipoli sick must be taken off to them ingo flat bottomed barges as the only two ports onthis coast are Beirut & Alexandretta.I received a letter from you this week & a parcelof tobacco which is very welcome indeed.Keep up your spirits my dear, the war news isglorious & I should be able to get home among thefirst batches. Just today a number of the menwho came out in 1914 left for Egypt & Australiaon furlough & they deserve it too. Luckybeggars - I had hoped to leave by this butexpect my turn will come very shortly now. Just at present there is great shortage inmedicos as such numbers of then gotmalaria this time. My old friend & rivalColin Anderson has it & so has Single & lotsof others. We passed through some very badpatches of country in the early stages of theseoperations & they got it there. I'm thankfulto say that I escaped it - of course I tookprecautions - carried a net the whole time asI knew the country was bad & just at present I'mfairly blossoming, putting on weight fast. I losta little weight during the summer in the Jordan valley& during the operations specially after influenzabut my! you should see me now againmy tunic is beggining to burst with fatness.Well well I hope I'm just as fat whenwe have that happy reunion in Lindfielda few months hence my dear.Now don't work too hard, get yourself ingood condition for my return & whata time we'll have won't we just!Lots of love to alf all fromYour loving sonWilf.& a little extra bit for mother. I hope to goout to the hospital boat tomorrow & postthis on board in hope of catching this post toAustralia.