Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 13 June 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 13. 6. 16My dear mother,Since I last wrote you we had an Australianmail or rather I believe it was just before I wrote &I somehow think I forgot to mention it in tellingyou about Cairo. I had two letters from youone from Linda & one from Mab, a SydneyMail from Ern & Herald from Harry. I was sorrythat you had not received letters from me & sincerelyhope that the rumor was untrue that you our letterswould be stopped for 2 months. We heard thesame thing here but I discredited it & continuedwriting. It was of course during the movementof our Infantry to France & I thought thatthey might try & prevent all news of themovement from filtering out as we allknew quite well here & you appeared to be incomplete ignorance in Australia. Was sorry tohear that the house at Cooma was not tenanted& hope that some wise person has seen fitto occupy it since then. We are again leadingour life of monotony which is worse than usualat present as a good part of the regimentis away on a "stunt" & I was not taken againworse luck, but Wesley has had the luck to go this time with part of his regiment & part of mine.We saw the first Turkish aeroplane xx thathas appeared since our arrival here - todayWe heard a buzzing as we were going tobreakfast & I looked up & saw a machineof an unusual type passing overhead & soonafterwards someone saw with the aid ofglasses the hostile sign painted underneaththe plane. She passed however withoutattempting to molest us though she hadpreviously dropped some bombs near thecamp where Wesley usually is but heraim was very bad & no damage wasdone. I went to dinner last night withthe officers of the 11th who were at onetime with us & spent a pleasant eveningafterwards playing bridge & talking. Wehave a phonograph here now & it helps towhile away some of the dull hours ratherpleasantly & we have just completed a newfly proof mess shed of rather a swankytype, made of matting with matting roof builtthus so as to allow air ventilationat the top. No provisionneed ever be made for rain here. The windowsare covered with mosquito netting & have sliding panels to cover them in case of adust storm. It is a pretty building rather,I must take a snap of it some day& send it along. I brought back someof Stevenson's books this time & have justfinished them, they rather remind me ofthe tales I read long ago in Cooma inthe big old arm chair in the dining room.I can often picture you, now in the wintersitting by the fire in the dining room playingdraughts sewing & reading just as you didwhen I had my last trip home in thewinter. Well! well! I hope to make anotherin one of those parties again fairlyshortly, the Russians are makinga good big rush again & I beginto see visions of home sweet homeagain & my! won't we have a timeNo more desert for me then thankyou, I'llI think I'll be inclined to eat grasslike a cow after this I'll love it somuch, so you can think out somerecipes for grass for my returnmy dear. I'm afraid that's allthe news & foolery I have for youthis time so will close this ugly scrawl with the best of love to all & a littleextra bit for mother fromher loving son,Wilf.One of the photos I'm sending is a pontoonbridge over a certain stretch of waterwhich is nameless.