Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 8 October 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 8.10.1916.My dear mother,We are expecting mail tomorrow or nextday as it already at Romani but I must answer write yourletter now or I will miss this mail. We have had anotherstunt this week or in other words a reconnaissance tothe same place which we went to a couple of weeksago - El Maza. The Turks were reported to haveevacuated the place soon after our last attack bothby prisoners & by our aeroplanes & the latter statedthere were some pumps left behind. A comparativelysmall expedition was then organised to explorethe place & a small detachment of the Ambulanceaccompanied it with two officers - Cave & myself.We left here about ten oclock one morning &returned the next evening about 8 o'clock after a longfatiguing ride of over 40 miles. We followed as beforethe old caravan route but the journey was not quiteso fatiguing as before as we had fairly frequenthalts & did not lose so much much sleep as we haltedfor some hours on the only night we were out & slept fairlywell but it was jolly cold when we woke at 3.30 am,with only one blanket over us, for the nights havealready become chilly. The Ambulance did notgo right to Maza but stopped 5 miles this side& some of the Camel Corps went on. The place was first investigated by an aeroplane whichdropped a message to the effect that all wasclear & then the Camel Corps went into the placeThe Turks had taken everything awaywith them which was of any great value &the only things remaining were a few old pumps,about 20 in all & the tops of these were brought backThere were a number of wells there & so any horseswhich went on had a drink but the remaindercould have none until we got back to HodSalmana about 22 miles this side of Mazabut people made various other reconnaissancesto the North & South in order to reconnoitre thecountry, find wells & so on. Two old tracks goto Maza forming alternative routes & the Northern oneis a splendid road except for a few miles. It isjust as hard as a properly macadamisedroad as it runs for the most part throughlowlying moist ground which sets firmly especiallyas the water being brackish deposits a layerof salt & this helps to bind it. There are quitea number of these " salt pans " in this regionwhich are quite white & dazzling. Then also justwhere the sea fringes the shore there is an area ofdry hard salt & sand extending for miles overwhich a motor car could be driven with easeor even old Monty & the buggy. You ought to geta map & see just where we are - I can't tell youexactly but you could get it approximately. I have seen maps in the Australian papers showingBir el Abd & then the road to El Maza whichformed our route & then El Arish beyond whichis held by the Turks and where they have an aeroplanebase. Of course interest has subsided in this partnow owing to comparative inactivity but you mayper chance have cut out a map at the timeof the attack. Ordinary atlases are notdetailed enough paper clippings are the bestThe dates are still in splendid order & arevery enjoyeable - the weather good butwe are all longing for a spell nearer theCanal & leave which will only be given then.It is well over 4 months since I have been to civilization& I would like a trip now to Luxor & Assorian ifpossible - you remember I wanted to go therebefore as the most famous ruins in Egypt areat Luxor, the remains of the old city of Thebes.I wish you could come there with me - we'dhave the time of our lives as these Egyptian wintersare delightful as regards weather. However weare so far away here & leave so limited thatit is useful to think about it. otherwise Imight be advocating a trip to Egypt for Darby &Joan. At Assorian there is a famous dam- one of the biggest pieces of engineering inthe world & a week's leave would just giveme time to see both it & Luxor, I believe it is to be decided today whether we go backto the canal for a spell or not. We have justbeen out for a ride round part of the oldbattlefield of 9th July last where the fight atBir-el-Abd took place & evidences of thebattle still remain - we counted over 30dead horses lying in one area & shellholes & shell fragments are lying about.I had not seen this particular part before asit was held by the 1st & 2nd BrigadesI'm afraid I'm getting fat again my dear, now the cool weather has come again &I am feeling very well. I only hope you &father are feeling the same & am anxiouslywaiting the mail tomorrow to hear & hopeit will be good & the truth whole truth Etc.Must close for lack of news with thebest of love to all & a double share formother fromHer loving sonWilf.