Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 9 January 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Heliopolis Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: No I Aust. Gen. Hospital,Heliopolis,9.1.1916.My dear mother,You will doubtless be verysurprised to see the old address on the letteragain unless you have heard before this byother means & strange to say I'm here asa patient though I can't describe myselfas sick. I developed a slight influenzalattack the other day with a little temperature& asked one of the men in the ambulanceto do my sick parade for me nextday, which he did, & then sent meover here as he thought it much morecomfortable. However I was almostwell when I arrived here & have felta perfect fraud ever since, which isonly a period of two days, for I'mas fat as can be since going to Gallipoli, for the trousers I broughtfrom Sydney will hardly button roundmy waist & everyone I meet here remarkshow fat I became at Anzac. Wesley & Parryboth did the same so we had a photo takenthe other day which I wl will send along toyou - it is cheap & nasty. About three daysago I paid my promised visit to CousinJohn Evans at Wardan. I went by trainfrom here at 1.40 p.m, skirting the banksof the Nile through beautiful irrigated landfor the first part of the trip & then turningoff into barren desert. The journey occupiedabout 1 hours & I alighted at a typical"Gyppy" wayside station in the midst ofa barren plain of fine sand with a strongbreeze blowing the aforesaid sand into everyavailable crevice, & caught sight ofa British encampment a short distanceaway partly smothered in sand. ThereI directed my steps & after numerousenquiries succeed in finding the requiredtent & there was my cousin sor snoringaway peacefully in a tent which was as tightlyclosed in as possible to keep out the sand.The poor beggar had lost all his kit &had practically nothing in the tent save astretcher bed & he didn't look at all comfy.Strictly between you & me, British peoplecan't look after themselves like the colonials,it was notorious at Gallipoli how little theBritish soldier knew of ordinary bush cookingor rigging himself up a decent shelter & so on- of course he has never had to do it athome. An Australian batman would havebeen ashamed to leave his masters' tentas poorly fitted up as my cousin's manhad done. However we settled down to talk& he told me lots & lots of things about thefamily, wanted to know if you rememberedthe big bowl of lollies in father's shopwhich he used to feed on. He is sucha jolly chap & good company, toldme about Grandpa Evans at BryngwranFarm, what a clever & witty old chaphe was & how he used to drink.His wife whose maiden name was Anwy lwas one of the Welsh royal line, ashis sister had told me previously - veryhumorous. One of father's sisters or ratherhis only one married a clergyman namedDavies who has a good living atCarnavon or Clanarvon or some such placewhere he himself lived. Then there isstill a brother in Liverpool I thinkhe said & one at Bryngwran Farm.He told me about his brother's committingsuicide, which I remember reading aboutsome years ago since when both his father &mother have died. He says that his ownfather was very severe & partly attributeshis brother's death to that. I hadafternoon tea with him & then went tocatch my train, under his escortto the station as it was dark, &the train being very late I did notarrive in Cairo until about 9 pm. I had grown hungry by this time soI went & I had some refreshmentof a light kind. Then I was goingto the tram to come home when Iwas tapped on the shoulder by oneof the younger generation from PrinceAlfred who had come over recently &he persuaded me to help him escorttwo of the nurses back to GhezirehHospital whom he had with himat the time. When we arrived there wemet more people we knew amgamong them Buchanan who was inmy year & Morgan who was in thefollowing year. Buchanan hada motorbike & side car with him& said he was coming to Heliopolis& would drive me here. Howeverbefore leaving Ghezireh Hospitalwe sighted a fire & must needs go there at full speed on the motorbike. It proved to be in one of theriver boats owned by Cooks which isused for passenger traffic to Luxor.There was another large boat tiedto it's outer side & quite a large numberof others tied along the wharves close toit but lower down & a strong windwas blowing the flames down on themThe fire brigade was very slow incommencing work but eventually managedto get some hoses going after muchgesticulating & talking among the niggerswho ran the show. By this time about 10 or15 khaki-clad men had appeared on thescene in addition to ourselves & our offer ofhelp which was at first refused waseventually accepted & we got a small boat& rowed out to the boat which was tiedup on the outside of the burning vessel & freedher & tried to push her off. Howevershe caught fire before we could gether well away & we beat a hasty retreat when the decks began to get hot.Then we rowed downstream & freed severalother boats & with the aid of the tide gotthem fairly well out of danger. Itwas late by this time so Buchanan& I after first taken Morgan home on thebike went off to Heliopolis at greatspeed & it is then I think I developedmy influenza as I had not carrieda coat to Wardan thinking I wouldbe home early, & the night air hereas you know is chilly. The next nightI had promised to go into dinnerwith Buchanan & his mother & sisterthough I was not keen on it, but hewould have been offended if I didnot go. Dinner at the abominablehour of 8 p.m. at the boarding housewhere they stay in Cairo kept bytwo scotch ladies - not a badspread. Afterwards went tothe picture show - my own inclinationswould have been for a good spee sleep butcould hardly excuse myself. Then supperat Saults in Cairo & home at 12.30.Very tired. Mrs Buchanan I met beforeonce or twice when I dined with themin Sydney at Dulwich Hill one ofthe straight-laced variety, does notattract me greatly. Daughter nothalf bad, very closely watched bymother - just as well in Cairo.Buchanan wanted to entice meinto the trip to Luxor with himself& people - but "not in these trousers"(in vulgar parlance) - I would like togo to Luxor but prefer to have afree hand. It is a town right awaydown in the centre of Egypt are onthe Nile & is very interesting is reachedby the railway Kitchener built toOmdurman & is interesting historically & on account of dams & deadcities in which it abounds.Must try & get a week end off &go there if I can as it is necessaryto complete one's Egyptian visiting.Well my dear I hope you willnot worry about me being inhospital, I hope to be outtomorrow or the next day& if you could only see myfat condition you wouldnot worry a bit. Will writeto all the members of thefamily when I can manageit, please all of you youngmembers of the flock bearwith me, it's the very deucewriting over the same stuffwhich is herein containedalthough I love to receiveyour letters but now that Ifeel myself again & hope to have a little spare time Ishall try & write individuallyBest of love to all thefamily fromYour loving son (& brother,Wilf.With mother's extra sharewithout which I know shewould be grieved.