Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 3 July 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 3.7.1916My dear mother,A mail came in yesterday& I'm pleased to say that I at lastreceived a couple of letters, one from you & onefrom no less a person than Blanche Cavanough.I think two or three letters from you are missing,the 48th arrived from you this time writtenfrom Goulburn but I have no trace of the 46thor 47th but they will probably arrive in time.I hope you are beginning to receive our lettersagain regularly. I was awfully glad tohear that you had gone away for a tripas a change is sure to be beneficial.Wesley is still away & will probably be gonefor some time as his illness proved to betyphoid fever & he has gone to Cairo. Hefirst went to Ismailia & was sent onafterwards to the base at Cairo. I donot think he will be ill long asColonel Powell who was attendinghim at Ismailia told me that histemperature was almost down tonormal when he was sent on. Typhoidis rarely of a serious nature in those who have been inoculated not much worse thaninfluenza as a rule. Charles is ratherlucky I think as he may be sent toEngland to convalesce - wouldn't mindhaving it myself for that but don't thinkI have a ghost of a chance as Ihave just inoculated the regimentincluding myself against it. This ismy third inoculation in three years fortyphoid so I fancy I should keep clearof it. I am awfully sorry to lose my palbut feel glad for his sake as he willhave a good change. I went up to Ismailiato see him on Saturday & was awfully disappointedto find that he had gone to Cairo theprevious day. However I had a veryenjoyable day, Major Sukmann wentwith me & we travelled part of the way on ahospital boat where there happened to befour nurses who had come down for amornings trip, one of whom I knew &consequently knew the rest very soon.They had bought sandwiches & tea which we thoroughly enjoyed as we hadstarted early & ridden a good wayThen we had one of the real Australianapples which had been sent to thehospital recently & it was good.So the trip up was very enjoyable.Sukmann & went to the club forlunch, a very good lunch too & thenwent to the hospital to see some of themedicos there whom we knew, & I leftSukmann there about three o'clock & wentto one of the wards for afternoon teawith Wesley's girl & another sister namedHart. I called back for Sukmannat about fo for 4.30 & we went for agarry drive round the township ashe had not previously seen it & atfive o'clock joined some of theother medicos in order to go downto the lake for a swim. Andwhat a swim it was, the waterof course was quite warm &we simply revelled in it for aboutan hour and a half. Then at sevenoclock we went to the doctor's quartersfor dinner & after the after dinnersmoke sallied round to the Sisters home to listen to some music. TheMatron of strange to say is a friendof Dr Rennies & I met her at hisplace in Sydney several times.We had to catch a train at 9 30 p.m. &after that ride away out here soyou can imagine we were rather wearyby 1.30 a.m. when we got home. Stillalthough the long ride at the end of theday is rather wretched the trip does onegood as it breaks the dull monotonyof life here. Otherwise we are jogging onas usual uneventfully while the variousarmies in Europe are endeavouring toexterminate each other & apparentlywith some measure of success. Bestof love to the family with mother'sextra share fromHer loving sonWilf.Lots of Bulletins Sydney Mails Southern Recordssafely to hand by the mail Thanks to everyone