Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 December 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 17.12.1917My dear mother,Australian mail has arrived & brought lettersfrom you & Ern, which always take one so much nearerhome. I must certainly write a special letter to the Candeloknitting society & thank them for the parcels they have sent,two of which have come safely to hand. How I wish I couldbe in Sydney with you now & help you to choose a house& so on - I wish to goodness the old war would end& let me get back to the old land & occupation oncemore. I think if it doesn't end I must try & get homesomehow or another, the difficulty is that in order to do soone must have good financial reasons & I can't saythat I have any very involved affairs at all, unlessyou can manage to find any special reasons whichmight satisfy the military authorities.Since I last wrote you I have seen Jack, I heard ofthe whereabouts of his unit so away I went on thechase & eventually located him some six miles fromwhere we then were. He was fortunately at home & veryglad we were to see each other. He looks very wellindeed, better than I have seen him for some time & seemsquite pleased with life in every way. He said he intendedcabling to you for Xmas. Since then I have had another very interesting experience - I have been toJerusalem my dear. We did not take part in the attackon the country near Jerusalem & were some 30 miles awaybut on this particular day, a car happened to begoing there & I seized the chance. It was a finetouring Sunbeam car & we had a pleasant partyaboard so had a glorious day. At first our roadlay on the flat fertile country but we soon enteredthe hills & the road from then onwards eclipsedany one I have known in steepness & the numberof sharp turns in it. And no wonder, for thehills are so preciptous that one would wonderthat it is possible to proceed by road at all.Hill succeeds hill, & valley their sides covered withsharp boulders & falling away precipitously intodeep valleys. Here & there are clustered smallvillages, which are so familiar to us fromBiblical illustrations with their stone walls &flat roofs, & generally perched on the steepside of a hill. How the people subsist on the countryis a mystery, but the soil is very rich if it canbe cultivated & they use the bottom of the valleysto grow olive trees & vines & also make little terraceson the sides of the hills & the soil is so fertilethat a few scratches are sufficient to growa crop. We climbed & climbed over one hill after another, until at last we reached the crest of therange from where we could see the Meditterananin the distance & the valleys instead of leading downtowards the sea now led in the direction of the Jordan.Amid these old world surroundings the presence of t numeroustroops with their wagons & guns seemed out of place &one wondered how they ever succeeded in driving the Turkfrom such a stronghold & one can understand the oldimportance of Jerusalem as a fortress. The roadwas badly cut up in places by so much militarytraffic but hundreds of men were busily engagedin mending it & we passed over quite readily.After passing more villages & more vil valleys we suddenlyshot into Jerusalem itself. We entered the moderncity first & were surprised to see so many fine buildings& good streets. After fighting for so long in the desert whereonly Arabs & their tents are seen, it gave us a thrill ofpleasure to at last enter a city so well worth thetaking as Jerusalem. We eventually came to theHotel Fast where we alighted & tried to obtainlunch but so many officers were there that wecould obtain none but ordered eggs & tea for threeo'clock. Food is scarce in Jerusalem as their usualsupply is now cut off & tea & sugar are practicallyunknown but they have some kind of imitation teawhich is a very poor substitute. We then went to the Military Commandant & obtained passes toenter the old city & a guide to direct us.We went first to the site of Solomon's temple, whereover which is built a magnificent Mohammedanmosque - the mosque of Omar. It is built on ahuge rock which was the base of the old temple & oneclimbs up some steps before reaching the level of thefloor. It is circular in shape with a dome on top& one must cover his shoes before entering, as is theusual custom. The interior is gorgeous, white pillarsof beautifully polished marble stretch upwardssome forty feet to the dome, the walls are formedof marble slabs, the floors covered with beautifulcarpets. The roof is most beautifully painted decoratedwith a in the Oriental fashion with all ki a kindof scroll design painted in gold, & small windowswhich let in a subdued light are formed of topaz.It is divided by a circular partition into anouter & inner rig ring. Inside the inner circleis a tremendous rock upon which Abrahamoffered to slay Isaac & cut out of thissolid rock are some steps leading downto a cavern wh in which are four marble altarsfor Abraham Elijah Isaac & another of theprophets. Tremendous labour must havebeen done to carve out this place as the rock is absolutely solid & is I think granite in nature.We were shown the place where Mohammed placedhis foot & this is most venerably regarded by theMohammedans. It is We were then ushered to thedoor by the patriach with long flowing beard whowas showing us round. We next went towards theMount of Olives upon which several churches are builtto commemorate different events. It is a rounded hillwith three well marked prominences & has clusters ofolive trees at different parts, elsewhere being devoid oftrees & g slopes down toward Jerusalem & just onthe outskirts of the town is the Garden of Gethsemane.Time did not permit of us exploring this but the viewfrom where we were is disappointing - it was not thebeautiful garden I had pictured it but a smallenclosed space with stone wall round it, & containinga few trees. Different sects claim different placesas gardens & the church of Mary Magdalene isbuilt on one of these & certainly looked verybeautiful from where we were. We then retracedour steps towards Pilate's house & on our waysaw the place where the waters were troubled on theappearance of the angel & where the man sick ofthe palsy took up his bed & walked.From Pilate's house we proceeded along theVia Dolorosa where Christ bore the cross & along this several stations are marked where certainevents occurred. The first & second is where Christ fellunder the weight of the cross & then follows the spotwhere Simon the tanner assisted to carry it.I think the walk along this path where Christwent to his cross is the most sacred of all.The other holy places are generally covered withchurches, where different sects squabble in adisgraceful way for pre-eminence & defile theplace with their squabblings, but here is the plainalmost unadorned path leading between rows ofhouses only a couple of yards wide, which needsno adornment to render it sacred.The houses often communicate over one's head bystone or wood ledges a yard or two wide.We eventually reached Calvary which standson an eminence & the whole area where thecrucifixion took place is covered with a collectionof churches under one roof. The Greek church hasthe main part, the Armenians have one, the Coptsanother, the Abysinnians another & have the RomanCatholics one also. The exact spot where thecross stood is shown - whether it is true ornot I don't know & the cleft in the rocknear by. The sepulchre where Christ waskissed is also shown & here are 34 ls lamps of silver which are always burning & are allottedto the different denominations mentioned above.The tombs of Joseph of Arimithea & Nicodemus areadjacent & can also be seen cut in the solidrock.As time was now short & we had many miles togo before we reached home we hastened backto the hotel for our afternoon tea & then badefarewell to the holy city for a time.I forgot to mention that we saw the hotel ofplace where Christ dismissed the money changersalso, but a call has come for me now &I must close this letter & away with much love& many hugs fromYour loving sonWilf.I bought some books of views & some trinketsat a Armenian shop in Jerusalem whichI am posting in a day or two. Description of Jerusalem