Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 24 October 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Jordan Nationality: Australian Text: 24.10.1918. My dear mother,I am trying now to conclude my account ofour recent adventures from the day we left the Jordan, North ofTiberias. At this period I regret to say I developed thatbeastly influenza which has spread over the world recently& felt rotten for 3 days, couldn't eat anything at all & feltat enmity with all the world. However I managed to dragalong - we were travelling rapidly then & I used to lie downin a motor Ambulance & come along that way. How Ilonged for a comfy bed though & rest instead of continuallypushing on. It is the first time for about three yearsthat I have been at all off colour & I can'tsay I liked it; but practically everyone hascontracted it sooner or later. We pushed onthrough Kuneitra & along a fairly level plateau. Theonly really bad hill was one coming up from the valleyof the Jordan above the lake of Tiberias & that wasa fair corker. After that we travelled over theplateau which is fairly well cultivated but largely inhabitedby Circassians who if they had the chance would beglad to shoot one for his clothes. We passedMount Hermon which rises some 3000 or 4000feet above the level of the tableland, as a huge gauntrugged hill, scarred by the watercourses whichcenturies of torrential winter rains have washedout of the mountain side. The last day before we reached Damascus the troopstravelled 40 miles, fighting most of the way.Our Division led & the boys didsplendidly. There were several immensely strongpositions, which if well held would have beenvery difficult to take, but our fellows dashedin with such vigour that on each occasionthe resistance was brushed aside. On oneoccasion about 1000 of the enemy occupieda strong position on some rocky hills & the officerin charge of the advanced force turned allhis artillery & machine guns on to them &while their attention was thus engaged hesent round a regiment on their flankwith orders to charge from there. When the enemysuddenly discovered our fellows from thisdirection bearing down on them with swordsglittering in the sun, they decided that discretionwas better than valour & surrendered enmasse without causing us a single casualty.There were several fights of this kind beforewe reached Damascus & quite anumber of prisoners were captured.I heard afterwards from prisoners also that the local Arabs attacked the Germans &Turks & murdered many of them, & oneGerman told me that he preferred tosurrender to us than be killed by the Arabs.After our long long trek we reached the top ofa small hill & Damascus lay beforeus. On the left were the mountain ranges ascendingto Lebanon & to the East of this was a flat plainextending for many miles & one mass of verdure.The country we had passed through wasfertile during the rainy months but this waslike an oasis in the desert, it was soamazingly fertile. Trees & gardens covered thewhole of the oasis & in the centrecould be distinguished the spires & domesof the city. Seven rivers descend herefrom the hills, for provide a large perennialsupply of water which irrigates the the whole ofthe oasis. However we were not allowed toadmire the view too long as we advanced& a couple of Brigades were sent roundto cut off the retreat of the Turks in thetown to the North & West - & the road to Beirut & Homs. The road & railway toBeirut run together & soon after leaving thecity enter a narrow gorge in the mountains.Our fellows instead of entering the city cut acrossthe hills to this road about 3 miles from thetown & then intercepted a huge column of Turkstrying to escape. The machine gunners goclimbed on to a knoll commanding the road& as the Turkish force men guns transporttried to get away they simply swept thatroad & in a few minutes it was a shambles& when I saw it a little later it wasthe most horrible spectacle I have ever seen.Dead animals & men, wagons, guns,trains - everything mixed up & absolutelyblocking the road. One train came outarmed to the teeth with machine guns &troops but met with such a warmreception that it was forced to return.A train was captured with a large amountof money aboard too. One other roadof escape there was - to Homs but thiswas speedily blocked & the Turks escaping along it chased & captured. Then someof our troops cleaned up the town & all theprisoners were collected & sent to a depot somemiles out. I thought the procession wouldnever end - some 15000 or 16000 of themmarched past us & a sorry crowd they were.The constituted the remnant of the 4th Turkisharmy who had been stationed at Amman& Es Salt & had given us such a warm timein those Es Salt scraps & in order to escapeafter the line had been broken & we hadreached Afuleh they had retreatedalong the Hedjaz railway line fromAmman through Desar & to Damascus.They had marched 80 to 100 milesonly to be caught at Damascus byour rapid entrance. The Sherif ofMeccas folk had been working on theEastern flank & joined us for the firsttime at Damascus. My first glimpseof them took place on the first day after theplace was taken. Col Fowler & I went in to the city to look for hospital accommodation.It was growing dark & the sound ofbrisk firing filled the air. We crossedsome ruined bridges in our motor car, atthe risk of our necks, & entered thestreets of the city. The streets were fullof people mainly Arabs swarming everywherein great excitement. Very many of themwere armed & often playfully dischargedtheir weapons into the air. Our appearancewas frequently greeted with loud handclappings, but we were rather disconcertedafter travelling some way through darknarrow streets in search of the Frenchhospital to find that we had almost lostour way in a strange city, that none of ourown men were about & the streets full of aqueer mixture of Arabs. Firing was going onintermittently & every now & again we werestartled by reports close at hand. So we decidedto give up the ghost search & return & we feltvery relieved when we found our way safely back to camp. Next morning I went in again & wentround the various hospitals. Things were a little quieterbut numerous bands of Arabs had come in for thesake of plunder & pretended they belonged to theforces of the Sherif of Mecca. Their excesses becametoo great & the Sherifs people who had takenover the town set to work to restore order.I noticed some argument taking place onthe corner of the main street as I wasproceeding round to the German hospitalbut didn't take much notice of it untiljust after I had entered the hospitalthe sound of machine gun firing attractedmy attention & along the street I had justcome up quite a number of these lootingArabs were falling under the fire of machineguns. The lesson thus given hada good effect & looting soon ceasedthough at night firing continued for afew nights.I had my hands full for the next few daystrying to ration five hospitals full of sick Turks& our own commencing to come in too. One Turkish barracks had been recently convertedby them into a hospital & had some 600 or 700Turks in it, & all their attendants hadabsconded. I have never see such a sightas it presented - you can imagine yourselfwhat condition a place would be in when700 sick had been left by themselvesfor almost two days. It took a lotof work to get it cleaned up & orderlies& attendants to look after the people.I handed it over after a day or two toanother fellow, as it was rather much toget round & look after the five hospitalsMy impressions of Damacus are mostdisappointing, on close acquaintance it provedto be a filthy town with wretched sanitaryarrangements, streets fallen into disrepair,great holes in the main streets 7 or 8feet deep & water beneath. The buildingsare for the most part very poor, butthere are a few decent ones in the mainsquare. There is water everywhere all the main streets are built over runningstreams. The bazaars also are disappointing- interesting of course, but very dingey. The firstbazaar is lined with fruit & vegetables ofall kinds & in immense quantity - it is anarrow street with little open shops on eitherside & half the wares in baskets on theroadway. The other bazaars were coveredby a huge archway of zinc extending for some200 or 300 yards & forming a kind ofarcade, but the Turks pulled the zincroof off for military use & now there isonly the skeleton of it left. Everythingis expensive, particularly as the Arabs don'tconsider our pound notes to be equal tomore than half their value as they havebeen accustomed to the Turks notes. Consequentlyone pays more than their value for articles. Ihad hoped to get a good carpet &send it home, but found them chargingtwice their value & after spending anafternoon chasing round trying to find one suitable I gave up the attempt particularlyas it is so difficult to get it home fromhere. My hand tires my dear soI really must conclude with verybest of love & good wishes.fromYour loving sonWilf. The explosions in Damascus the night beforewe entered it were a sight which beggarsdescription. They burnt their petrol & blew upthe ammunition dumps & huge fires werelighting up the whole sky & every few moments- bang! would go a dump & up wouldshoot a huge flame followed by a cloudof black smokeIt was magnificent but terrible to watch. I think it would be a good thing to invest a littlemore cash on war loan - the interest is good.