Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 2 March 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 2.3.1917.My dear mother,Your letter following the Battle ofRafa arrived safely this week & so Jack hasbeen & gone & is now soon to come along to Egypt.He will first of all go to Moasca near Ismailiawhich you have heard me mention before & thengo along to his Regiment when reinforcementsare required. Y Unfortunately his regiment willnot be in the same Brigade as this as this oneis composed of Victorians & Western Australianslargely but I will manage to see him somehowor other. We are still having a quiet time here, oneday very like another. This afternoon Henry Leahyone of our new officers & a very good fellow, & Iwent to the Flying Corps on a visit & whilethere opened a boil or two as they have no medico.It was very interesting to see the place & theaeroplanes in their hangars & to watchthem rising & coming down, they were coming& going very frequently & rose from the groundor alighted with the greatest of ease.One, however on landing apparently had some engine trouble for it came down with a rushhitting the top of a tent not far from us& plunged into the ground, but fortunatelydid not do itself or it's occupants muchdamage. The photographs taken by airmen& upon which they rely for most of theirinformation are very interesting. They showthe nature of the ground very clearly,flat country is seen as a broad uninterruptedstretch & hilly country looks somewhatlike the moon does through a telescopeor like those maps you see in illustratedpapers showing contours of the country.Trenches show remarkably clearly asdark lines just as if they had been pencilledout & tents are seen as round rings.It was the first time I had seena large number of them & it wasexceptionally interesting.One of our regiments gave a dinner to theFlying Corps recently & representatives ofdifferent units in our Brigade, myselfamong them were invited & it was quite a splendid affair. They had eight or tencourses & all very well served. The Brigadierwas there & everyone had a very pleasantevening, speeches songs horseplay allfilled in the time very well. Did I tellyou in my last that our Colonel wasaway at Luxor & I was alone here fora day or two, till Leahy joined me,but it wasn't a very hard propositionto work. The Colonel has returned againnow & we have settled down again.I am still doing Brigade Sanitaryofficer & go round periodically stirringup the various people in regard to thestate of their camps. We asked a coupleof fellows from my old Regiment to dinnerthe other night Majors Daly & Seikmann& afterwards indulged in a little gameof Brigde with coffee at 10 o'clockquite like home again. Also hadfresh fish today & good ones too, boughtfrom the Bedouins who fish along thebeach. No more news my dearso will close with lots of love to all &a special share for mother fromHer loving sonWilf.