Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 May 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 17.5.1916.My dear mother,No mail has arrived since I lastwrote you but we expect one any day now as it is afortnight since the last. Wesley & I broke the monotonythis week by going off to Ismailia for the day lastSunday. We left here at 6.30 a.m. - I had previouslydone my sick parade - & caught a train to Ismailiafrom the nearest railway station. Even at that timein the morning it was hot so our first performancewas to go into the club & have an iced lemonsquash & it was glorious to get a really colddrink again. Then we trotted round to the hospital,saw a few people there including Davidson whogo graduated a year after us at Sydney & wasattached to the 3rd L.H.F Amb. but is now sick inhospital. We repaired to the club for lunch &saw a lot of English papers there also & later inthe afternoon went for a dip in the lake, whichwas delightful as it was a sweltering day& the water was glorious. We managedto borrow tights & dressed in some properbathing boxes which are placed alongthe banks of the lake. We then swallowedmore lemon squashes & afternoon tea & wandered about in the cool evening air tillour train departed, but the villainous thingwas 1 hours late & so we did not get backto camp until 2 a.m. It was beautifullymoonlight on our return trip & althoughwe felt a little tired, riding home was notunpleasant. It may seem a ridiculousthing to do making such a big day as thatbut it is well worth while in order to makesome variation in our life here. The weatherhas warmed up in earnest now & two ofour thermometers in water registered 106 yesterdayin the tent so I suppose that it was a goodmany degrees over that but we dared not leavethem out as they would burst at 110.The flies also are very troublesome as theypersist in coming into the shade of thetent or humpy & cause great annoyance astheir numbers beat anything I have ever seen.We keep them down a lot by spraying butthey breed very fast. The nights are notunbearably hot fortunately & we sleep wellI have a horses nosebag on my tent as a waterbag& have now a bottle of lime juice & manage toput a surprising quantity away. My batmanboils the water each night & fills the bag as I never trust the water in these places.As for tea we put it away by the pint.I don't think our Turkish friends willvisit us at all now - if they can crossthis desert in the heat they are notmortal, so I expect we will have aquiet time. We have no mosquitos orsandflies which is a great comfortStuck again my dear for news somust think of finishing. I do hopeyou are keeping well & in good spirits& taking a trip away. Best of love toall & a double share to mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.