Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 26 January 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 26.1.1917 My dear mother,Once again in the desert and after all thereare compensations as at present the weather is perfect &the open desert & sea are very different from the stuffinessof Cairo. I believe an Australian mail is expected heretoday but probably I think I will write this letter now& reply later to yours when they come. Horrid rumors areprevalent that the P&O are only going to run amonthly service to Australia instead of fortnightly -wouldn't it be abominable? Everything is very quiet herenow, & may be so for sometime for all we know, butof course we don't know very much. I enjoyed myrun to Cairo very much, though it was a very hurriedone. As soon as we settled down here after the lastfighting I proposed to the colonel that we shouldtake advantage of the time to go on leave & heintended going first but changed his mind atthe last moment & I went. We have now on the railwaythis side of the canal a splendid hospital train whichis a great contrast in comfort to the ordinary ration trainswhich have no springs underneath or between carriages trucks &are the most abominably uncomfortable things to ride in that you could imagine so I made up my mindto travel by the hospital train, which is beautifully equippedif possible. Being a medical officer I succeededin getting aboard & it so happened that ourold brigadier general who has been sufferingfrom malaria was going down by it & wishedto take his aide de camp with him but as thelatter was not ill or a medico he was notallowed to go aboard & I offered my servicesto the old boy. We had a very comfortabletrip, as there were very few patients in the officer'scar & we had quite a multitude of bunks tobe on if we chose. They brought us a splendidbreakfast of eggs & bacon & biscuits bread butter& jam which we greatly appreciated, as eggs orbutter we had not tasted since being in Cairo lastWe were also given lunch so were quite luxurious- so different from the other beastly old trainon which one would have to take some tinned stuff& drink out of a waterbottle. On reaching thecanal there was a car to meet the general& we trotted round the place for a while &I took him off to a stationary hospitalto rest as he wasn't fit to run about too much. There he met a colonel who had been through the same battlesin the S. African war & they had a very enjoyable chat & theold Colonel produced his very best port. I also found a friend- McDonald who was in my year at Sydney & enlisted in the R.A.M.C. We were given a splendid tea - fresh fish, bacon & eggs Etc& caught our train on the other side of the canal at 7p.m.arriving in Cairo at about midnight. We went to Shepheard'sHotel & dossed there for the night & would you believe itI experienced great difficulty in sleeping in a soft bed withsheets. Shepheard's is a far famed hotel absolutely the swankiestin Cairo but I personally prefer the Continental. Nextmorning I went off to the kit stores to get some thingsfrom my bag & this took all the morning as I didn'trise for breakfast till 10 am. In the afternoon thegeneral was going out to the hospital & so was I, &he gave me a left in the car he had at his disposalQuite a number of our wounded from the last fightswere in this hospital & it was quite pleasant to trotround the place & see them all again, most of them doingvery well & enjoying the comfort & attention they werereceiving. Incidentally I saw quite a number of nursesI knew who had arrived from Australia only tendays previously & came mostly from Sydney Hospital.They were really quite a good looking lot too, very pleasantto see after the desert. The Matron (Miss Creel) was formerlymatron of The Sydney Hospital & I had a chat with her later in the evening. Some of the medicosI knew also & I stayed to dinner with them &afterwards went down to a concert which was beinggiven for the patients & after that we went over& had quite a long that with the Matron aboutold acquaintances. Next day I went outto the zoo for morning tea, ?? I think I havepreviously described to you what a prettyplace it is & what a magnificent variety ofanimals there are. Of course I didn't goalone, but pray don't be alarmed my dearit was quite a different girl to the last visit.(The only one I knew last trip has been marriedsince!) I went to tea at Davies Bryansthat night a bonser tea too, as there weretwo fine chickens cabbage potato, pudding& fruit - all very nice. They were veryanxious to hear all about the fighting ofcourse. Next day I trotted about nearlyall the time shopping as there was quitea lot to be done but I finished inthe afternoon & went off to the hospital again & one of the medicos there & myself tooka couple of the girls to dinner just as wewere leaving we met the old matron & she wantedto know what she had done that she wasn'tgoing! Next morning away back to the desert,left Cairo at 11 am. came again by thehospital train on this side of the canal, butfirst of all had a very good dinner with McDonaldagain & then went properly to bed in the train& woke up next day in El Arish & here we areagain. These little trips are a very pleasantbreak in our lives though a little expensive, butstill they help to make life more endurable so theyare well worth it.Well, well, my dear, no more this time, hope youon well & cheerful please thank father very muchfor the tin of sweets which were very acceptable.Best of love to all & a double share formother fromHer loving sonWilf.