Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 11 December 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 11 .12. 1916My dear mother,Your welcome registered letter arrived a few days afterthe other one - I can't just lay my hands on it at present to see ifthere is anything to reply to. We are still in the same place &are fairly well settled & comfortable though we have been disturbedlately by frequent alarms - have been turned out to "boot & saddle"at very short notice but nothing eventuated. On the lastoccasion when we had all assembled & our old Brigadierwas giving a speech a hostile aeroplane appearedoverhead & so we all had to scatter in quick time asbombs might have a big effect on troops packed closelytogether. Since I last wrote you, Stewart & Cave who are inthis Ambulance have been promoted to be Majors, they have beenout since the very beginning of the war so were quite due forit. Stewart has been transferred to another Ambulance &another fellow named Bassett has been sent here. I amnow doing the job of Adjutant which includes all the officework, returns Etc. It is good experience from a militarypoint of view as one sees all the running of things, for everythingpasses through your hands. Colonel Downes now A. D. M S ofthis division, formally C.O. of this Ambulance came over tolunch last week also Dawson who is from Sydney & hasnow got his Lieutenant Colonelrey & one or two others so wehad quite a party. Our cook whom I have mentioned before turned out a first class three courseluncheon. He always gives us splendid tucker, canmanufacture all sorts of good dishes from very little.We are very fortunate in having him as a good cookmakes all the difference. We have had some frozenmutton lately which is a splendid change from beef.I went for a ride two or three days ago withsome other officers from the Brigade to some veryinteresting ruins situated on the sea coast -miles from here. We took our lunch boiled the billy- I had some sardines & fruit Mab had sent, breadjam, & someone else provided cream cheese & chocolates- not a bad little spread. We had these in theshelter of the ruins. They have only partially beenexcavated & are still largely covered with sandThey are quite extensive & some little distance fromwhat appears to have been the city is an old templeprobably Greek & it has some crosses in partsso must have been Christian & dates back some1600 or 1700 years. It is 115 yards long by50 broad, the walls are all demolished butthe bases of the ivory marble pillars of whichthere were about twenty still remain & acouple of the pillars themselves lie on theground. The floor was also of marble slab & at one end there was a kind of sacrificial altar& at the other a baptismal font. On either sidewere tombs & beneath was a gallery & in the churchwere twelve statues of the apostles which were Ibelieve removed by the Germans last year. Ithad a fine old courtyard of which little traceremains but much broken glass is lying about.The old town was built of a kind of stone apparentlymanufactured from shells sand & lime & part of itseems to have been an old monastery - maltese crossescut in the walls & niches which may have containedimages & so on. The country must have been verydifferent then to support such a place - it is knownof course that one branch of the Nile entered the seabetween here & the canal but not so far East asthis. The weather is still beautiful & we are steadilyfattening. I am sending you the first of a seriesof panoramas which Cave took & of which he kindlyordered some more prints . He takes splendid photographs& these are very valuable. The first is our Ambulance on a dryswamp, stretcher bearers in front sand carts behind. They arenumbered 1 2 3 4 from left to right & they will require fitting carefullytogether by getting the exact part where one joins the othercutting away the unnecessary part & then pasting them togetherat the back. I think this one is fair in fairly goodline lengthways so will not need any cutting off the top& bottom to make it even but only at the junction of the photos. So No I 1st on the left my dear thenNo on its right & so on. In order to keep them youmay need to have a board to form a back so thatyou can keep them all safe & sound against itbut some of the others are longer than this one.No more news today my dear, much love toall & a good hug to mother fromHer loving sonWilf.