Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 31 March 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 31.3.1917My dear mother,Events have for some time past been somixed up that I hardly know when I last wrote toyou but fancy it is only about a week ago, though thelast week has seemed ages as we have had rather arough time. I think I last wrote when we were going or hadjust gone on a reconnaissance in force out into Palestine& had seen the old city of Gaza in the distance. Well a dayor two afterwards we moved but again bivouaced in theopen that night & next morning there was quite alarge sized battle. Our particular Brigade was notheavily engaged though it had an exciting timein the evening. We had been sent right roundto the rear of the enemy's position to keepreinforcements from coming up to attack ourtroops in rear when they were fighting the enemyin Gaza. During most of the day we sat about& watched the Infantry advancing in the openbut towards evening received word that strongenemy forces were advancing on the rear & ourBrigade set out to repel them. I was left behindwith a section of the Ambulance with the reserve Regiment so didnt see much of it. In theevening after dusk however we received ordersto withdraw & it was a very awkward positionI can better describe by drawingWe were right round near thesea, shown & we couldonly return by a comparativelynarrow track to our own people& this was menaced by the enemyforces coming up on the rear & flank.The Regiment to which my sectionof the Ambulance was temporarily attached gotaway from me in the darkness & I decidedto come straight back & managed tocome along without much trouble, arrivingsomewhere about 3.30 am in our camp.The other part of the Ambulance & the Brigadehad orders to remain most of the night &commenced to return in the early hours ofthe morning. The Ambulance the other section of it under the Colonel& another officer had been sent on ahead& had gone too far South as the wayshown by the arrow & when dawn broke found numerous enemy people about 100yards away & they bolted for their lives & the Turksseemed so surprised they didn't worry themat all & our troops engaged them until theywere clear. Other exciting escapes were recorded- one officer was missing & turned up a coupleof days later after wandering about amongthe Turkish lines - once his groom shota couple of Turks who were making for them.We had one chap in the Ambulance who wastaken prisoner & escaped & was rescued by oneof our patrols in the last stage of exhaustionfrom lack of water.The day following the battle we spent in the open& it was terribly hot & we suffered a good dealfrom thirst & again on the following day, butare now fairly well settled again & comfortable.One day when we were hot dry & thirsty & feelingvery grubby from lack of washing we camenear the sea & the whole Brigade horses & menincluded went into it en masse & fairlywallowed in it. We are rather cut off fromnews just at present but hear all sorts ofrumors about big advances in France &more in Mesopotamia, will commence to get ournews regularly again in a day or two Isuppose. Our horses have had many aluscious feed in the crops of SouthernPalestine lately, some of the barley issplendid just at present. There are nofences but in some places they have mudwalls with huge cactus bushes growing ontop which afford a very strong barrier.But as a rule there are no fences at all.The mountains of Judaea & Hebron arefairly distinct in the distance so weare becoming quite Biblical.Hope to receive our mail todaywith lots of love to all & a doubleshare for mother fromHer loving son,Wilf.