Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 20 November 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 20.11.1916My dear motherYour two most welcome lettersof 5th & 12th October arrived this week, also a parcelfrom Blanche Cavanough who had asked meto send her some Egyptian stamps & seemed so pleasedwhen she received them that she sent off aparcel straight away. I was very sorry to hearthat one of Dr Rennies sons had been killed &must write to him - he was at home when Iwent out to play tennis there & I remember DrRennie feeling anxious at the time as he knewhis two sons were thinking of volunteering, Iwas very glad to hear that Em & Alice weregoing to see you for their holidays after all,as I think their company would bebeneficial if only you could have enough helpat the time. I am very sorry that you areleft without any doctor at Candelo & hopethat you will take Dr. Mann's advice & lookafter yourself & if you are not well at all,write to Dr Rennie & explain to him. Youmentioned Florrie Collins in your letter - haveWalter or Ernest or any of the others come away?In looking at the list of the names in the Candelo Records you sent I failed to see any of the olderCatholic families of the district mentioned. Howeverplease remember me to any of them when you seethem. I suppose Pat Heffernan & the other boys arestill shooting rabbits in the same way. It seemsvery strange that none of the Comans Collins orHeffernans have enlisted & they have a farbigger stake & interest in the country with theirlanded property than we have & it really isn'tvery pleasant for us to spend our years outhere to help them along while they hang backin Candelo. However I suppose it's the wayof the world. The billy has not arrived yetmy dear, but as I have said before parcelsare always somewhat belated & I canexpect it any day. I wish I had sentalong some trifle for Xmas for you butI had only just enough money left inCairo to see me safely home last timeso I hope you will forgive me this time.I'm sure you do miss my homecomingsas you say & I equally wish I couldbe there, for time & the war drag on, and month after month goes by without theend seeming appreciably nearer. Howeverkeep up your heart & spirits mother &I will do my best to see you sometimenext year if it isn't finished, althoughthe military machine is such that itis a most difficult thing to do, muchmore difficult than you imagine.Still difficulties are only made to be overcomethough we must always remember thatevery man will be needed the nearer weapproach to the end & we must all doour best for the Empire at such criticaltimes. Nothing very much has happenedhere since I last wrote, we are settleddown quietly & comfortably in our tents & areable to purchase a few things at canteenshere. This week however, I made a tripto Kantarah by rail to see Parry whois at present there with some detailsfrom the Ambulance to which hebelongs. He came over with Wesley Graham& myself, you will remember. This campwas some distance from the station & bythe time we had lunched it was time to return to the station to catch the train I hadarranged for. Our horses were late arriving butwe bagged a motorcar, only to be stopped atthe canal as the bridges werent open on accountof th boat traffic passing up & down soI missed my train. We then returned toParry's Camp & I wired here that Iwould not be back till next day &spent the night with Parry. Strange tosay another fellow from my old year -Machin turned up for dinner & we hadquite a reunion. I spent the night onthe floor of their mess tent, slept on somematting with a kit bag as pillow &a couple of blankets over me. Sleptwell also - such is soldiering. Ioften say that when I want to paya visit to Sydney on my return Iwill ride in, hitch my horse to a tree inthe Domain, spread my waterproofsheet on the ground & sleep under ita tree, shave with water from the fountain there & appear in George St fresh as paint, thenreturn & cook my dinner in a mess tin & so on.It really is very handy as one can go & see any ofhis friends & give no trouble about beds or suchthings. I am looking after all the sick here now,only one officer in the Ambulance at a time has thatjob & I am glad to be doing it as you may imagineThe three regiments from the Brigade send their caseshere also the various details such as the battery ofartillery who are Scotch, Signal troup, engineers& so on. Then we send them on to the base if they arevery ill, otherwise treat them here. We have avery large marquee as hospital & other tents forinfectious cases. The orderlies are well trained &there are a couple of good Sergeant nursesalso in charge. The Red Cross are very good &supply quite a lot of good things. We don'thave very many very sick people - mostly minorailments such as influenza, ingrown toenails, etcbut occasionally have cases of tropical diseaseswe don't have in Australia Lunch is justready & I have finished this writing pad sowill leave the remainder till afterwards. Later.I fear that my thoughts have become derangednow as since I wrote this I rode over to the oceanabout 6 miles away with Mr Pye the dentisthere & had quite a pleasant afternoon.The ride is just as usual - sand everywherebut it was pleasant to actually be on asea beach again & reminded me forcibly ofwalks in Sydney with Wal Corbett on Sundayafternoons. While there I met Van Epen oncein my year & later at Lismore where Mab methim & Stafford also of my year. I amgoing to see them one day this week again.Have lost my writing mood now so will closewith very best love to all fromYour loving sonWilf.