Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 17 October 1915 Regiment: 3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 3rd Light Horse Field Ambulance,Anzac,October 17th 1915.My dear mother,This is my second letter to you fromAnzac, but I should not wonder if you receivedseveral together as postal arrangements from hereare, as must be expected, not so orderly as athome, as letters are collected here sent to the localpost office & from there daily to Lemnos fromwhence they are sent to Alexandria wheneverthere is a boat going & from there to Sydney orMelbourne. And now of course the P. & O. &Orient services are a good deal disorganisedI have become accustomed fairly well to thelife here & as far as my health goes it suitsme very well. For instance, I met Dr ArchieAspinall now a Major - you remember he wasthe son of Rev Aspinall when I landed & againtwo or three days ago & he remarked thatit appeared to be agreeing with me verywell. An open air life always did. My appetiteis good & we always have plenty of food, bread & milk for breakfast, followed bybacon & sometimes by a chop as we havehad several issues of frozen meat since Ihave been here. Then we have bread & jamof course we do not have butter but wedon't miss it as Egyptian butter was vilestuff as a rule. For dinner we have eitherbully beef (i.e corned beef) in tins or frozen meat ifby chance there has been an issue & biscuits -big square ones like a magnified soda -or bread if this has been an issue & it hasbeen fairly constant lately (baked at ImbrosIsland), & jam. Then for tea we alwayshave boiled rice & biscuits or bread & jam(Just at present there is biff bang veryrepeatedly from our batteries on the flat& a few Turkish ones, one particular howitzerof ours makes an awful din). I think I'mputting on weight since I came over here.You can my dear, get quite an accurateidea of where I am at present if you takeup a good map of which you can easilyget one in the papers at times orelsewhere & follow my directions. We areat Fisherman's Hut which is a smalldilapidated old x mud house situatedalmost on the beach about two hundredyards from where I am sitting & is North of Anzak towards Suvla Bayyou will find it marked on most of themaps in the papers today. As I see the coastlineat presentThe narrows are away across here somewhereI am just drawing this mapto show items not of any military importanceso that the censor may pass it so it is ratherbare of any details & I never could draw mapsLiving over here is most economical as it isimpossible to spend anything & we are provided withall the necessities of life. There is not eventhe usual officers mess to pay for. A canteenhowever has just been opened on Imbros Island which is only about ten miles or twentymiles away & is plainly visible from here & wesent over one of our Sergeants this week whohad a large number of commissions fromall the men. he had orders for 70 worthof stuff for the unit here but couldonly procure 30. Such things as candlesbutter (2/6 lb.) chocolates, pickles chutneylollies, belts, looking glasses knives & soon are all greatly relished by the men.& most of us ordered something of the kindI lost my pipe & was in great need ofone as smoking is a great solace outhere if time tends to drag. I alsoordered a little chocolate some CravenMixture tobacco & a few other sundries &managed to procure most of them. Hejust arrived back today & there wasgreat excitement in the camps as themules brought the boxes alone. Mulesare used very largely here & are ofgreat service, they are so hardy, caneat almost anything & carry suchhuge loads. They have boxes hungon their backs one on each side & aredriven tandem fashion, but threego together with one mule driver. Themule drivers are for the most part Indians but there are also Maltese& a few Egyptians. The advantage ofthem is also that mules can go alongthe "saps" which the men go along &so travel safely in the daylight I supposeyou don't quite understand (my old phrasemum) that in order to proceed fromone position to another safely it is necessaryfor a deep kind of trench to be dug sothat the person travelling is not inview of the enemy & so this country formiles over is traversed by various"saps" connecting up all the positionsIn this way we can walk from here toAnzac or up to the trenches quite safely& unseen by the enemy who in some partscan look over the country we traversefrom their trenches & would of coursesnipe at us if we walked alongin the open. You can imagine howeverwhat a tremendous amount of workhas been done by the men to construct these, & you will understandthat probably the main part of asoldier's work today is using the pick& shovel & only a small part of itusing the rifle. I went up a smallpinnacle near here the other day& had a look at some old Turkishtrenches which were beautifullyconstructed round the top of thehill. They are narrow, only roomfor one man to pass along withtunnels here & there forming protectionfrom shrapnel & little excavationsin the walls also for shelter & theywind in & out around the sides of thehill with branches here & there & lookingover them one has a splendid viewof the country near by & incidentallyof the present Turkish positionsThe Turks must have spent ahuge amount of time & energydigging recently for huge pilesof earth can be seen heapedup wherever their trenches are opposed to ours. I went for anotherstroll the other day towards SuvlaBay & could see from there theheights of Sari Bahr or Hill 971which was the scene of the attackin August & the heights of whichour boys scaled but were drivenoff again. It is tremendousalmost precipitous in parts &steep almost everywhere risingin most places sheer from thevalley below & now a perfectnetwork of Turkish trenchescan be seen on it's summit. Itis Sunday today but the bombardmentgoes on as usual. I would like togo to a service near by if Ican manage it, but it clasheswith our tea hour - I must see ifI can't get a bite a little later.Dr. Merrington is over here butis not preaching near here tonightLaterIn my dugoutLeft this & went to church leavingtea until a little late. Have now gotmy pipe between my teeth like Johnnyboy puffing away furiously. The churchservice was the strangest I have ever attendedIt was commenced at 5.45 p.m. just astwilight was falling fast & a cold windblowing round us. The preachers deskwas a small wooden box situated inin the open in a space which has beencleared in order to erect a tent there.Some excavation had been necessary& the worshippers sat round on thesides of the bank thus formed.Then we commenced in the half light tosing the same old hymns which wehave loved & sung so often - theminister leading off & the congregationjoining in & from where I sat couldbe seen the beach & the sea beyondwith a hospital ship lying offthe land & stealing over thesmooth bluish grey waters thesinister dark shapes of two destroyers on patrol duty. Theyusually send some shots over to theTurks about this hour in the eveningbut possibly they restrained themon account of the service. After thehymns & reading came the sermonwhen we all began to feel chilly & wereglad when we could go back to awarmer world. Since writing youlast I have not had a very largeamount to do, chiefly admittingpatients & doing inspection onmy day as orderly officer but therest of the time endeavouring topass time away as pleasantly aspossible. The Colonel showed mesome of the office work which hewished me to be familiar with saidhe might wish me to act as AdjutantI often think of you over here as wehave plenty of time to reflect, wonderhow you are & can picture Fairview so vividly in my mindI could trace out the ascent of thehill the other day then along thetop & see you at the gate or in thedining room. I do hope that mybeing here is not worrying youtoo much & that you are lookingafter your health, going out agood deal & not neglecting yourholiday though I know youwould miss me very much in Sydney.I'm afraid that I won't be able tosend anything to anyone for Xmas,you know I had made arrangementsto go & buy things in Cairo just beforeI left & fate would have it thatmy guide had an accident & didnot turn up. However pleaseapologize to all the family,with best of love to the whole- lot & a double share formother fromHer loving son(in a dugout)Wilf.P.S. I hope poor old Linda is not going infor any more of those gallstone colics.