Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 12 December 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Tripoli Nationality: Australian Text: Tripoli, 5.12.1918(Syrien) My dear mother,No less than five letters arrived from you thismail & of course I was delighted. You spoke of yourpleasure to hear that I am coming home & I only hopethat you will not he too disappointed at not mynot being with you for Xmas. I hope however tospend Xmas on the water with any luck at all.I told you in my last, that I had seen ColDownes about it or rather written to him & that hehas asked permission to send me on transportduty at an early date, probably the next hospitaltransport which leaves. I have had a coupleof letters from Jack lately & he seemed to bewell & having a good time near Jerusalem.I am very glad that he, like myself, waslucky enough to dodge malaria whenso many others around us developed thedisease, as it is rather a nuisance in afterlife to have recurring attacks of fever.Just at present I am detached from Division for a few days to one of theAmbulances - the 4th this time. All the medicosin the Ambulance practically had beenill & the man in charge was away atCairo buying Xmas things for the men. Atthe time we could send no one else to theAmbulance so I came over for a fewdays to take charge until the real C.O.returned from Cairo. It is rather anenjoyeable change running a unit againbut I expect to be back with DivisionalHeadquarters again within a few days &after that hope to receive my marchingorders to Australia. You understand Isuppose that one of the chief causes ofmy delay in coming home was the lastoperation on this front, when I could hardlybe spared. We have had more rainagain today, it commenced last nightor rather in the early hours of the morning& my tent came down with a rush justas I had lit a lamp and struggled into my boots & overcoat. So I was compelledto crawl out from the collapsed tentinto the downpour & the next thing I sawwas another collapsed tent next door, whichhad sheltered two new officers who hadonly arrived on the previous day & hadup till then thought campaigning quite afine life. I stood in the rain grinning- couldn't help it & then dodged downto see how the patients were faring.One big marquee came down & the menhad to be hauled from under it & put inanother, another sick officer's tent wason the verge of collapsing when Iwith the aid of an orderly managedto save it just in time. Meantime Iwas drenched to the skin, but fortunatelyday was breaking & I woke my orderly & rescued some clothes from under the tent &succeeded in finding a dry shirt & pair oftrousers & a cardigan jacket. In theseI am now attired & am gaily writing toyou in the mess tent which fortunatelysurvived the storm, with a little help from mein the matter of driving in tent pegs.I was sorry my dear to hear that indigestionis still worrying you & hope that you willgo & consult someone if it continuesto do so, such as Rennie or Mills.Now that the war is practically finished weare acting here as the army of occupationto keep order in the country. Our chief workis trying to provide amusements for the men& we are giving them football matches,touring parties to the old ruins at Baalbek,swimming parties to the sea & in additioneducational schemes are being commencedto try & give men some opportunity ofpicking up trades before their return. The trouble is that the horses take up so muchof the men's time & attention that they do nothave too much spare for other things.Since I came here I've been quite busyas there is quite a lot to do in running evena unit like an Ambulance. Something orother is always cropping up to do.I'm keeping fit & well & am only anxiousto go home now.Lunch is here so I must saygoodbye with lots of lovefromYour loving sonWilf