Author: Wilfred Evans Location: S S Karoola at Sea Nationality: Australian Text: McILWRAITH, McEACHARNLINE."T.S.S KAROOLA,"At Sea My dear mother,I am commencingthis a few days before we expectto arrive at our next port sothat I shall have less to do thenWe had a splendid time at Perth& I really should have writtenyou a letter from there but ourtime was short & we were rushingabout a lot. We arrived atFreemantle late one evening &went ashore to have a lookround there. Freemantle appearsto be merely a port & I was notparticularly impressed with it &as you have been there I shallnot attempt to describe it. Howeverthey have decent electric trams whichcost 3d a ride no matter how faryou go, but the streets are very narrow & footpaths often hold only3 persons. We went to a pictureshow for a while but soon tiredof that & went for a walkround the town & popped intothe school of arts where we readup the previous weeks news.Graham & Wesley accompanied me& we had supper & returned tothe ship. Next morning all themedical officers were allowedashore & a few of the combatantofficers though most of them hadto remain with their troops whowere not given leave but weretaken ashore in boats to have arest ashore & a march. We weremoored in the stream to preventdesertions. Despite the fact thoGraham Wesley & I went ashore thenearly in the morning. by a motorlaunch & took the first train toPerth & reached there in about35 minutes. The narrow railwaygauge seemed so strange afterour own. There were several goodsuburbs between Freemantle &Perth with some very fine houses, for the most part built ofbrick - such a contrast toBrisbane you will remember.We encountered a talkative oldlady in the train who toldus various details of the place& where we should go. Afterarriving at Perth we went tohave a look over Boan's storewhich is just opposite therailway station & is a veryfine building & has a very goodstock. On the top there is aflat roof from which agood view of Perth can beobtained. We bought somebooks there & continued on ourway. We had a little shoppingto do & then went about on anexploring expedition. My impressionsof Perth were very favorable.It has good electric trams& some very fine buildings.The streets are not very wide but are at right anglesto each other & are generallystraight. As usual theRoman Catholic churchoccupies the commandingposition in the town. Thebusiness portion of the townis congregated for themost part in four streetsHay St. William St. BarrackSt & St Georges Terrace.The latter is a particularlyfine street contains only banks,insurance agencies, shippingoffices & places of thatkind & a fine Congregationalchurch. The buildings arevery good indeed one wouldhardly find as good a collectionin Sydney all in one group.Below this the ground slopesdown to the Swan Riverabout mile away & it isa very fine stretch of waterabout 3/4 of a mile across.There is a nice little park nearthis and we discovered thenewly established Universitynot far away & GovernmentHouse which is a beautifulbuilding in fine grounds slopingdown to the Swan River. We hadlunch at the Savoy Hotel & Graham& Wesley had to go back to Freemantleto attend the troops during the afternoonin case any accidents should happenbut my leggings were by this timehurting my feet so I stayedbehind & had them fixed upby a bootmaker. I then had atrot round & met Kirkwoodby chance & went along with him to do some business at thebarracks. He then told me thathe had had a wire from homesaying that his brother who hadenlisted in the ranks had beenkilled at the Dardanelles. Heis one of seven boys, three ofwhom are married & the otherfour have all enlisted, he alonebeing in the medical serviceso one can appreciate whathis mother's feelings must be.We went for a trip over the SwanRiver to South Perth where thezoo is, in a steam launchholding about 40 passengers &after looking around for a whilecame back & had afternoontea at the Esplanade Hotel,a very nicely appointed placein a quiet street not far fromthe River. After this we walkedround again for a while &I sent away some postcards. We had dinner at the Savoy Hotel, thechief place in the middle ofthe town & most of the peoplewent to the theatre afterwardsAbout 30 nurses stayed therealso. Kirkwood howeverdid not feel inclined to goanywhere so I stayed withhim during the evening& we had a quiet rest &then a walk & supper.Next morning we went fora taxi ride round King'sPark which is situatedon a hill overlooking theSwan River & the wholeof Perth - a beautifulsituation. The roads are likemarbles the ride was delightful.Then we took the train backto Freemantle & came on boardThe boat left at about five oclock that day. We hadrough weather for a day afterleaving Freemantle butsince then the sea has beenlike a mill pond & hasso far not been very hotnot as hot as one wouldexpect. Preparations are nowbeing made for crossing the lineas we are going to have somesport on that day. A boxingcompetition has been startedamong the men & seats are arrangedaround the ring which is overthe aft hatch & it has affordedus good amusement on a coupleof nights for some of the boutsare very funny & most of themwilling. We had a dance twoor three evening ago & it wasvery laughable to see thecouples go rolling over intothe scuppers when the shipheeled over a little during the swell. You could send the other outkeep this The following is a list of the photosI would like you to send forme -Jobs 2.Miss Sheridan Record Room R.P.A Hospital(I promised the girls there one as theyhad some of the other's photos on thewall who had gone away to the war)Sister SteelNurse Hewlett R.P.H.A.Nurse Wildash . . . . .Nurse Keys . . . . .Please don't look too shocked mydear.Then.Will Stewart Crown Sollicitors OfficeMacquarie St.Andersons. Dr. Willis R.P.A.HDr. J Stewart R.P.H.A.I think I promised more butcannot remember at present.I must now wind up my dear,hoping that you this will findyou in the best of health &spirits & not worrying toomuch about your wandering son.I think you had better address lettersstraight to Egypt, to the address I gaveyou & if you commence now I will inall probability receive them regularly.My dear no matter how many miles ofocean divide us I will still be thinkingof you & yearning to steal away to comfortyou sometimes when you are lonely & aifI cannot do actually in body I will do so inspirit so we can have a kind of wirelesstelepathy. Very best love totallfrom your loving sonWilf.