Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 26 April 1916 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Camp Heliopolis Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L.H. Regiment.26.4.1916My dear mother,Here we are again in the same oldspot, & I am pleased to say that another letterarrived from you this week. You asked me in one letterhow the Egyptians did up roast meat. They firstof all bake it until all the juice is gone out of it& it is as dry & tasteless as leather, then they cutit up into a multitude of square slices about 2inches across & inch thick - I think it is takenfrom the bone before cooking & cut into slicesafter being cooked. It is brought to the tablethus always half cold & generally has somequeer green mush round it something like lucernechewed up by a cow, or with some small cucumberarrangements with indigestible seeds cookedwhole & eaten thus. Generally no potatoes.Gippys can't cook English food & never will& they are always filthy & always will be.One takes his life in his hand if he eats grapesor other fruit which can't be peeled. Soyou can imagine that it is a relief to have one'sown cooks again. Wesley & I went for a trip to Ismalia last Thursday & quite enjoyed ourselvesI fear that censorship forbids me to say how wearrived there but our chief reason for going is thatWesley is somewhat enamoured of a lady whowears a nurse's uniform & he wanted some supporton his journey & though not anxious to go at thetime as it is a tedious journey for one day Iallowed myself to be persuaded. We interviewedthe object of his affections when we arrived therehad lunch (a very good one) at the Frenchclub met the lady who was accompanied byanother in order to keep me quiet I suppose, aboutthree o'clock. We hired a boat & went for a rowon the small lake there & just as you do inCandilo took a Thermos flask with tea &some very nice cake provided by the ladieswhich we enjoyed at four o'clock. Charlesappeared to be progressing very well as far asI could see & they both appeared pleased witheach other, so the day must be considered a successFor my part acting as I did as a support orreinforcement or whatever you might call it Ienjoyed it fairly well. We returned about sixo'clock dined & then retraced our rather wearyway home. Since then I have been jogging alongmuch as usual save that I developed a slight sore throat two or three days ago & strange tosay so did Wesley, though any connectionbetween that & our Ismalia trip we both failto see, though some unkind people havesuggested it to us. Mine is quite better nowthough it was troublesome for a day or two.Weather is becoming frightfully warm nowmuch to our disgust & we don't do much in themiddle of the day. The flies too are thickerthan I have ever seen them & very persistent& during the writing of this I have had to takerefuge behind some mosquito netting but the wretchesget in there too & are very difficult to drive out. The Turksare showing some activity lately not so much justat this point, but we could here this morning the boomof artillery & crackle of guns rifles away up North. So farwe have been very quiet here. I think this is all thenews I can do this time my dear, so goodbye withbest of love to all & mother's usual sharefromHer loving son,Wilf.