Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 19 August 1915 Location: Zeitoun Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: Zeitoun,August 19th, 1915.My dear mother,I was a little lazythis week & did not write my letter early& then found that the mail went earlierthan I anticipated & missed it,which has annoyed me very much as youwill have a long gap with no letter &get anxious. I have now been here onemonth or more & have not yet receiveda single letter, although some of thefellows have received several by differentmails. Postal arrangements here arevile as far as I can see, & stronglanguage might be used about them- I know you have written & hopethat you are addressing correctlyto No I Australian General HospitalHelipolis. Egypt. However otherfellows besides myself have suffered,one man married only three monthsbefore leaving has had no letters thoughhe receives cables all right. It'sabominably disappointing though to go over when a mail comes & see othersreceiving them & get none oneself.However I suppose they will come ina budget later. I went out last Sundaywith Major Norris who is in charge hereto intending to visit the famous museum,& so we duly took tram into Cairo& then engaged a garry to drivesus to the Museum. We kept drivingon & on for a long time past theGhezerah Hospital which I havebefore mentioned on the other side ofthe Nile & then through the gardens.We wondered if we were going inthe right direction so we queriedthe driver who spoke no Englishbut signified that we were goingin the right direction. So we satback & for a long time drove on & wereat last deposited not at the Museumbut the Zoological gardens. Theword Museum had meant such tohim. Well to make the best of a badjob we alighted & went in & were verypleased that we did for they havethere the finest collection of guns animals thatI have ever seen. There were elephants giraffes which were much larger & tallerthan I had anticipated, monkeys inabundance, jackals, hyenas, lions,tigers in fact any old thing youwould like to mention. We had tea atthe refreshment room which overlooks apond covered with a water lily whichflowers very well, has a blue tinge &makes the place very gay. Unlike theBarage the tea was beautiful & we hadvery nice cakes, & being an excessivelyhot day we thoroughly enjoyed it.The gardens at the zoo are beautifullykept & are green with flowers & shrubsscattered about. We sought anothergarry after finishing the zoo & returnedto Cairo & I went on to Kirk whilethe others came out here to dinner. Ithoroughly enjoyed the sermon, itwas one of the most thoughtful &well connected sermon I have heardfor a long time. I did not feel inclinedfor anything to eat after service sowent to Heliopolis and looked forWesley but could not find himso came on here & then had alittle dinner as it was still to be had. Later 21.8.15I learnt today my dear, that no mailleaves until the 2nd of September sothat means that you will be a monthor nearly so without a letter for whichI am deeply grieved. I understand that mailsgo only about 3 times in a month & thatthere is an interval of a week between two ofthem & a fortnight between the other & Iunfortunately missed the one before the longgap. I had better cable you I think inabout a months time or a little lessso that you will not be over anxiousWeek end cables go for about ratesso are not so very expensive if sent thatway. I have at last succeeded in gettinga horse for myself, although it has takenalmost a month to do it owing to militaryred tape. However I succeeded in obtainingan order this week & went down to the remountdepot at Abassiah some three milesaway to pick one. I borrowed a nag& was accompanied by a groom fromhere to bring it back & managed topick up a lieutenant who was goingdown to the soldiers' detention barracks(where any soldiers who commit offences arepunished) on business. So we formed quite a cavalcade but succeeded in gettinga nice little nag. They have generallybetween 5000 & 6000 horses there, thoughI believe that their numbers have beenreduced lately as some have been sentprobably to the Dardanelles wherefor a long time they have had no usefor horses. They are tethered in greatlong lines covered by a kind ofmatting roof, & secured by their head& one heel. They sound a bugle at feedingtime & all the horses know the particularcall & make a frightful fuss as soonas it is blown - neighing & jumping round.By the time we returned it was after oneo'clock & we were tired & hot. Todaybeing Saturday I managed to have a run outin company with Major Norris and LieutenantMurray from here & this time actually succeededin finding the museum & explored it. It isa new building of good appearance fromthe front but very bare from the back.There is a most wonderful & interestingcollection of Egyptian curiosities therewhich have been dug out & classifiedafter years of patient research. To theordinary sight seer & I fear that I come under that classification the mummiesare the most interesting features thoughI was really more taken by the gloriouscarving & sculpture works. You rememberthe plates on the back of many Biblesrepresenting these carvings of numerousfigures fruit furniture etc, those give onlya poor idea of the excellence of the originalThe amount of detail is marvellous &the illustrations in many cases areaccompanied by writings to comment onthem. There are huge carved statuesrepresenting men who lived in pastages about three times the ordinary sizeof man - beautifully done althoughthe hands & feet tend to be rathersquare and spade like in most caseswith abnormally long fingers & toes.The amount of work on the outer coveringsof the corpses which are somewhatlike coffins is tremendous, the wholething being covered in many cases withhundreds of tiny drawings & generallyon top a model of the deceased face& all complete. There are specimens ofthe sepulchres also, great solidstone arrangements with huge stone lids. The mummies are to most people the mostinteresting objects though I did not findthem so - the carving appealed to mytaste to a greater extent. They are in manycases taken out of their wrappings toa great extent & are withered shrivelledup objects not particularly pleasantto look on, reminded me forcibly ofmy old dissecting days.It is strange that on Sunday eveningsabout teatime or church time my thoughtsturn to Candelo more than at any other& I can see the little church with the funnylittle parson with his vagaries of speech &all the old familiar faces & you & fatherin the same old seat. Then I wonderhow you are whether you are very lonely& sad & grieving about me beingso far away & hope to heaven that itis not so & that you are quite reconciled.The unfortunate part is that letters are soerratic & one cannot hear how you all are.I have not managed to write to anyof the family yet but as you aresending the letters round I am surethey will pardon it. I have not yetbeen able to buy anything to send along, the reason being that one willassuredly pay exorbitant prices for shoddyarticles if he does not know the valueof things & I have not yet been able to getthe services of anyone who does. Thereare curios to be had at the museumat which I was looking yesterdaywhich I think you would onlyappreciate by throwing them in thefire - little carved figures of woodreally models of the real things inthe museum but some of the othersmight like them. There is a bazaarhere where silks & such things canbe obtained - I must try to getsome soon if I can get to knowthe inside running. I have to senda present to Cappita Job for herwedding too. I think my dearI will close this letter & post itso that I may catch the mailwithout doubt & if no other goesbefore September 2nd I will writeanother & you will get them together.Much love to all including Suey & herold man, Harry and Ern and theirrespective old women, farmer Johnfather bigger, & a special share for motherfrom her loving son, Wilf.