Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 24 June 1918 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Near Bethlehem Jerusalem Nationality: Australian Text: 24.6.1918.My dear mother,As I'm rather short ofnote paper - can't find any in fact Imust write to you on this. Since my lastletter we have moved into the hills for are arest & are now camped near the birthplaceof Christ. We were very glad indeed to handover to some one else the particular spot wewere in as a hotter & more dusty spot couldhardly be imagined. We had dinner onceor twice in Jerusalem at a hotel there& found the change an excellent one.We are now camped in a on monasterywhich was abandoned by it's monks& Col. Dixon & I inhabit a roomtogether where we are very comfortable.Mosquitos however are rather troublesomebut fortunately are not for the mostpart the malaria carriers, & we arewell protected with nets. Since coming here we have had opportunities of seeingthe Church of the Nativity (at Bethlehem) which islike the church of the Holy Sepulchre at Jerusalemdivided into three portions GreekRoman Catholic & Armenian & hasthe same superstructure of tawdrinessthat the latter has. The RomanCatholic portion is not so bad asthe others & contains a couple ofmost. exquisite paintings of thewise men presenting gifts & theappearance of the angels on thenight reading of the birth of Christ.Some say these were paintedby Raphael & they certainly arevery fine indeed. The Greekportion of the church howeveris positively revolting. it's wallsare covered with paintings of allkinds & most of them atrocious.The figures representing Christ are too awful for words & thewhole place disgusts one.One goes down a number of stepsto the vaults where the stable ofthe inn was & a star on thefloor marks the spot whereChrist was born. The originalmanger was moved to Romebut it's position is still shown.The Greeks, Armenians & Catholicsa good many years ago &quarreled over the place & foughtaround the very birthplaceof Christ, overcame the Turkishguard who was there for theprotection of the place & inthe confusion the place caughtfire & most of the beautifulpaintings by Raphael & otherswere destroyed.I think that exemplifies the spiritof those people guarding the holy places more than anything I know.We also visited the place where Christwas hidden during the slaughter ofthe innocents (of which there is a beautifulpainting in the church of the nativity) &saw the Shepherds Field.Bethlehem itself is rather a finevillage much cleaner than mostof the villages in Palestine & haschiefly a Christian population.There are two or three very good stonechurches & most of the buildings areof stone, some quite large & imposing& nearly all well built & finishedoff. Some two or three miles awayare Solomon's pools, severaltremendous reservoirs whichcaught the flood waters of alarge gully & also those of a smallspring & from them an aqueductconveyed the water to Jerusalem.This aqueduct was composed of pipes made of huge pieces ofrock with a ^round hole cut through thecentre in the pipe & fitted at eachend like pieces of an iron pipe lineto dovetail into one another.The amount of work to construct15 or 20 miles of this must havebeen terrific & was done I believeby Solomon. The large reservoirswhich have a capacity of millions ofgallons were also built by Solomon& repaired by Pontius Pilate wholost his job by spending too much ofthe public money on them. So yousee we are in quite an interestingplace at present & within easyreach of Jerusalem. The countryis very pretty hereabouts too withit's light green vines contrastingwith the dark green of the olivetrees & villages nestling on thesides of hills, built of stone & in the flat topped Eastern style.It is delightfully cool too, onecould hardly realize that therewould be such a difference in afew miles, it was scorching in thevalley while here it is cool &delightful with a pleasant breezemost of the day.Must close now my dear, hopingyou are all well & withlots of lovefromYour loving sonWilf.