Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 8 October 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 8.10.1917.My dear mother,The silence hasbroken at last & two letters arrivedone dated July 12th & the otherAugust 10th. No other letters & noparcels not even the billy havearrived but I expect they will allcome along in time as our mailservice has gone to the dogs sincethe P & O. altered their route Youasked about Myrt Connel - Iforget when I last saw him, butthink it was when I was in Cairolast & Myrt had been in hospitalI don't think she has any causeto worry at all, but mails areso erratic now that we mustall be content to go for long periods without news.You asked about my health, mydear, well I'm getting fatter everyday, it's hard work to keepmy appetite down & at presentwe are living very well indeed.My only anxiety is for fear that Imay become too portly whichwould be a shame wouldn't it?Glad to hear that you arethinking of Parsley Bay - tomy mind it seems quite thebest place of all, so fresh butyet so central - but you wouldwant more than one allotmentof ground I should think.If you I have not seen Jackagain this last week & thinkit unlikely that I will see him for some little time as it isdifficult to go across to wherehe is at present. Today isone of those days which youso detested in Cooma, a strongwind is blowing & the dustwhich as I have told youlies inched deep everywhereis simply pouring in throughevery opening in the tent & someof it will doubtless be enclosedin this letter to you.I had a letter from Wesley aday or two ago - he is nowat No 1 Australian General Hospitalin France - that was thehospital I first joined inCairo. He is anxious tojoin a Field Ambulancebut has not been able todo so yet - it must bea rather unhealthy life in aField Amb. in France Ishould think. We havehad some lively air fightingover here lately & the daybefore yesterday, one of ourmen bought down a Germanin our lines. It was rather badluck for the German as he hadonly three shots through his plane& very often they have a dozenor two without having to comedown but one of the shotshit his water tank in theengine & he had to descendon our lines. Our manfollowed him down & had a chat with him before he wastaken away by our patrols.The machine was brought inintact on an Army limber.Of course the flying people arevery bucked about it & verypleased with themselves indeedWe have had a quiet time sinceI last wrote, very little doingat all, not even a reconnaissanceHowever, we have all been betterpleased as reconnaissances areoften very unpleasant. I havejust returned from examininga Turkish prisoner who wasbrought in today. He is very ill,poor beggar, has very severeBronchitis & possibly pneumonia& has been wandering about practically without food fora couple of days. He says theyare very poorly fed, though heseemed quite well nourishedenough. All the Turks or mostof them are big, well made fellows& this chap was quite good - looking& their uniform when new mustbe quite smart being greyish orgrey blue in colour with red facinground the collar which quitesets it off. I sent thepoor beggar off in a MotorAmbulance. Prisoners keepcoming in, by one or two, almostevery day one passes throughthis Divisional Headquarters-I think a lot of them getvery fed up & then do a bolt into our lines when they get achance.No more news my dear, hopeyou are all very well &in good spirits, withvery best of love to all& an extra bit for motherfromHer loving sonWilf.