Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 19 February 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 19.2.1917My dear mother,Your two welcome letters (one registered &one unregistered of 28.12.16 & 4.1.17) safely to hand this week.And also the parcel my dear, which is a treat thoughI have not been able to open it yet, as I am away fromthe Ambulance for a few days & have not had a chanceto get at it, but I know what mother's cake willbe like. I don't like to hear of you sending away yourgood cake tins though, my dear as I know howhandy they are for your little eatables. I unfortunatelyhave only one of your letters here & not the one containingthe cheque so I must wait until I return to campto fill that in, but it won't make any difference asthe mail doesn't close for ten days or so yet & youwill probably receive this letter & my next at the sametime. We can obtain tinned milk quite readily heremy dear, so in case you do not send any more parcelsit is just as well to omit it, as it is weighty & costsmoney to post. And please, my dear, don't worry toomuch about sending me things, as I know you havelots to do at home & I don't like to think of youoverworking yourself to send me cake & now thatJack is away, & he will need things more than I,so don't trouble too much about me. I haven'ttold you yet what I am doing at present,well the Divisional Sanitary Officer is away onleave & our A.D.M.S. (chief medical man in the divisionwho arranges our duties) told me to come up & relievehim during his absence, said it would be a littleexperience for me & so on. It is a very easy jobthough, the unit is a small one of 25 men & onehas to supply sanitary materials for the division& go round inspecting the camps & stir upthe medical officers & others if things arenot all they might be. Captain Harvey Sutton isthe man I am relieving & comes from Melbourne.He lives alone here & I think messes by himself asa rule but I ride over at mealtimes to thestationary part of our Ambulance which isnot far from here & eat there as I mustsay I like company. One morning howeverI stayed in bed for breakfast as it wascold, bed was comfy & there wasn't muchto do. I brought my batman Smith alongwith me so I just told him I wouldstay in bed & be brought my tucker along. We couldn't do such a thing in the Ambulance so itwas quite a treat. They all tease me now & callme "Dan Dan the Sanitary man", I reckon I'm asecond "Thoms", in a different walk of life. Butyou have no idea, my dear, how very importantsanitation is for the health of the troops, & the waywhich modern science has improved it. For instanceNapoleon lost more than half his army in this verypart of the country from Cholera & entire & herewe have an army as healthy as can be solely fromgood sanitation. The only cases of Cholera we hadwere a few after the August fight when we hadtraversed country which the Turks had occupied& they were soon stamped out. Everyone is inoculatedagainst cholera as well as typhoid so that notonly are they not likely to get the disease but ifthey do get it, the form in which it occurs is notso serious. So you see Army medicine is more appliedto prevention than cure. You sometimes ask aftermy health, mother my dear & seem anxious aboutit. I wish you could see me & your doubts wouldbe dispelled. I think I look fitter than I haveever done, & naturally so, as the weather is gloriousand I spend a lot of time out in the open &have frequent swims, much riding, so theconditions are very favorable. Strange that youdid not know why I cabled after theBattle of Magdaba, you must have missed seeingit in the papers, & I thought you would haveseen it & been anxious. Jolly glad you didn'tthough, I am never certain of being in a positionto send you a cable after a fight as we areoften far away from cable centres but the chancecame during the last two. I think it very possiblethat I may miss the next if there are any morehere & of course we don't know if there will beany more. But if there is one in the next fewmonths I think it most possible that Iwill be with our stationary part, nowhere nearit, as it is my turn to go there, so you neednot worry at all if any fighting does occur.Of course we may not have any fighting at all butwar is an uncertain thing & one never quite knowswhat the other side may do, or at any rate thejunior ones of the service don't. I am very gladthat Jack came along in the Light Horseas Infantry in France seems to be a suicideclub when they have those big pushes, the men in the firing line seem to have no chance at all.I called in to see worthy cousin John today, hewas very pleasant & seemed glad to see meof course as Colonel of his Ambulance he is rathera big gun & sits in state at the head of the table.It seems quite different to Australian Ambulance,we laugh & chaff on Colonel on the same planealmost as ourselves but in the British Ambulancesthey seem to sit quietly round as if they weremummies & afraid to say anything. Well wellmy dear I think all topics are exhausted soI must return to bed with much love fromYour loving & sanitary sonWilf.What is Jack's full address.You said he was a reinforcement to the 6thLH Regt. but I will want to know hisnumber & what the number of his reinforcementis.