Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 12 January 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 12.1.1917My dear mother,A mail is expected here ta todayor tomorrow but I have quite a lot to tell youso will start right away. We have had anotherscrap as you doubtless know & I sent off anothercable today with Smith who went right awayto Port Said & will get it away tomorrow &you should have it on Sunday or Monday. Isent the last by letter to Mr Bryan in Cairo & havejust received a letter from him saying he sent itoff but it took a week to reach him. I putin the cable to send more tobacco as I am on thelast tin of Lucy Hinton & smoked some otherstuff today & didn't like it one bit. Would itbe too much to ask you my dear to sendme say 3 tins each month not to be paid forfrom your money but from my cheques. I thinkthat will just keep me going & allow me to offer otherssome If sent in little lots it has more chance ofarriving or some of it. I think it would be better tosend half of it as plug tobacco for the tinned is often toodried up when it reaches here & the plug is easier to send& keeps better - but please don't say you will pay forit or I will regret having asked you to send it. Now about the latest scrap. We knew for somedays previously that it was brewing & weleft here about midday on the 9th inst. Wecrossed our old friend the Wady El Arish, & insteadof following it as before to Magdaba went atright angles to it along the sea - coast but abouttwo or three miles inland. We travelled allnight continuously & suffered considerablyfrom the cold as it was an exceptionally chillynight. x These night marches are very tryingas one becomes terribly sleepy in the early hoursof the morning & rides along in a kind ofdream sometimes dozing off on the saddle &waking up with a sudden jerk to findthat the horse has strayed out of the line &is going off alone. xWe approached Rafa which is 30 miles Eastof El Arish at dawn & then the Generalcommanding made a reconnaissance of theplace & then disposed his troops accordingly.The redoubts to be taken were very strong indeed& there was not a scrap of shelter for man or beast for miles round so that the undertakingwas a very formidable one as the Turks were wellsupplied with machine guns & had a battery ofartillery of the latest type of mountain guns.The different Brigades then moved forward totheir allotted posts going right round theposition until it was completely surrounded. Thenof course some had to be sent out to our rearinto enemy country to protect us from attack inthat direction.We moved forward with our Brigade but beforeproceeding with the account of the battle I mustsay a little more of the country.The first ten or twelve miles on our way from El Arishwas desert except at the mouth of the Wady ElArish where there is a considerable Arab populationwho tried to sell us fresh carrots & parsnips as wepassed along but we weren't having any just then.After this the country improved & towards Rafawas almost all under cultivation. The soiljust became clay mixed with sand & thenalmost pure clay, & oats was springing upeverywhere. This is sown & cultivated by the Arabs& Bedouins who live in peculiar tents madefrom long strips of camel & goat hair carpetabout 3 feet wide & some yards in length & resembles stair carpet very much. Several of thesestrips are supported alongside one anotherfrom 3 to 6 feet from the ground & thesides closed in forming long flat lowshelters which look very peculiar at firstSurely the Biblical expression "To your tentsO Israel" must have referred to suchstructures as these for the ones I mentionwere actually in Palestine the border of whichwe crossed just before we started the battlewhich was fought partly in the Holy Land.The Arab population is very large indeed &they have numerous flocks of sheep & goatsgrazing on the country & many camels &horses. They are not a very attractive classof people & have the unfortunate habit ofdisinterring our dead from the ground in orderto take the clothes & belongings from the bodiesOne of our airmen who was wounded in a fightwith an enemy machine & his machine forcedto descend into the sea swam ashore & fellinto the hands of these people who stripped him of his clothes, when suddenly a patrol ofour men came on the scene & quickly turned thetables on the Bedouins.To continue with the battle.The Brigades formed a splendid sight as theyrode them to their positions & surrounded the enemies positionthen deployed into line facing the enemy graduallyclosed in & then dismounted & advanced in openorder. Our artillery were soon in position &commenced to bombard the enemies trenches.We left our tent division well behind where theerected their tents, made fires & prepared hotfood & dressings for the receipt of patients xwhich we would collect & bring them on oursand carts. The enemy's batterys now opened firein reply to our guns & the rifles machine gun fireincreased in intensity. We x chose a spot forour wagons at the foot of a small rise, wherethere was a little shelter though not very much &a couple of wounded were reported from my oldregiment & I took a cart round & picked themup from where their led horses were in a the lee of a hillQuite a number of slightly wounded cases commencedto come in & we were kept busy dressing them & sendingthem off. Then wounded about 3p.m. it was reportedthat there were quite a number of wounded men in a position about a mile forward from us& about 600 yards from the enemy inthe open. The question was could we getthem with a reasonable chance of oursand carts & it's three drivers & six horsescoming through safely? " The Colonel & Iviewed the spot & were doubtful as the wholemile was exposed to heavy fire. The xxxxThe Colonel was in a quandary to know what todo & I suddenly saw my duty ahead.(Now this part is for not to go outside the family please)You can do what you like with the rest.I thought of you & what it would mean ifanything happened to me. I also thought ofwounded men lying helpless & left on the fieldto die. What could I do? I told the ColonelI thought I had better take a cart round &get them & after a little demur he agreed.Now mother mine, I ask you again, would youhave me not go? Possibly it might help youif you remembered the old text 'God gave his onlybeloved son etc"I am being perfectly frank in my descriptionof this battle as it is useless to hide from youthat there was danger & a lot of it, ten times more than I have ever previously passed through as conditionswere so exceptionally difficult for whenever in wereeven at our depot bullets were dropping into the groundabout us.Well to continue, I sent up one small prayer &took 3 sand carts & with their 9 drivers & 4stretcher bearers & after seeing that each carthad its red cross flag well fixed up started off.We made a detour & then proceeded up a longvalley with just a gradual rise on either side whichalthough it hid is from the Turks offered noprotection from bullets. We picked up a manshot through the head very soon - he had beencarried for a mile by two bearers who volunteeredto show me the best way to the other wounded.As we went on bullets began to drop thicker & thickeraround us, x & at last I decided that it wasn'tworth risking my men & myself by going furtherjust then so we pulled up. This spot howeverproved very bad - one bullet went between my horsesleg & mine & hit the ground xxx just beyond & theywere whistling about everywhere. So I gave the orderfor a hurried retreat & we got to a better spot.The firing then eased off & little & I decided togo on (it did xx require a lot of screwing up ofcourage though as I was as frightened as could be).So we advanced rapidly over the ground & soon afterwards can into full view of the Turkishpositions at about 800 yards range. I thenleft the sandcart there, dismounted the bearersx & sent them along for the wounded.The most remarkable thing was that afterthe sandcart emerged into full view of theTurks not a shot went near it & I thinkat a great credit to them that they thusrespected the Red Cross flag as they couldeasily have completely destroyed all the horses& men at that range. The Colonel of theRegiment was lying full length flat onthe ground in a little place he hadexcavated by scratching out the sand &which was the only cover he could get.Several other such holes were scratched nearhim & I immediately joined him & we laydown side by side while he told me whatwounded he had & my bearers broughtthem along. While we were in this positiona machine gun played over the top ofour poor shelters & it was quite eerie tohear the bullets whistling a foot or two aboveone's head. I enquired what he thought of the position & he said he thought it was verybad as it was about impossible to advanceover such ground any further. So we didn't feelvery happy about things at all. My wounded hadby this time been brought to the cart & the machinegun had stopped, so I jumped up like a rabbitfrom it's burrow & ran down to the cart & helped toget in the wounded. We had no trouble from bulletsat all there but just at this time the enemy shelledthe machine guns just near us very heavily so Ihurried up the loading as they approached nearto us & off we went at full gallop with our woundedWe were very glad when we had crossed our badpatch of indirect fire again & then on thenext slope when I sent on the carts to thedressing station away in the rear & joinedthe Colonel again myself at his advanced post.Here I thought we would have a welcome spellfrom nerve tension but just as I settled downfor a rest (how I longed for some tea as theexcitement had made my throat parched & dry)two or three German aeroplanes came along &dropped about a dozen large bombs near us& if there is anything hardly anything more tryingthan the screech of a bomb as it descendsthrough the air & one wonders for a few tenseseconds where it will strike. Soon after this word came of more wounded on the left& the Colonel went off leaving me in chargeof our advanced post.The condition of affairs at the time was very precariousas I afterwards learnt but did not know at thetime but it was as follows -: We were very largelyheld up by this strong position which we hadsurrounded & so part of our troops were in it's rear& then word was received by the commanderthat from a captured Turk that their reinforcementsto the number of 3 3000 to 4000 were advancingon us & so would strike our rear & catchus between two fires. This is corroboratedby our scouts who had been sent out in therear & further by the aeroplanes that hostile forcesto the number of 4000 were only 3 milesdistant from us. As you may imagine itwas a terrible position & the General commandingwas reluctantly compelled to give orders to withdraw.This message was not received by the New Zealanderswho had got very close to the Turkish position& our own general brigadier I believe put it in hispocket & said nothing. One Brigade commencedto act on the orders & the Turkish firebecame concentrated on them. We heard the news of withdrawal & as you may imaginewere terribly downcast. However just at thismoment the New Zealanders taking advantageof the Turkish fore being concentrated on the returningBrigade leapt forward & charge & our Brigadierseeing them going called out "On Boys" & awaythey went & next moment up went the whiteflag. One redoubt to the left still kept firingbut eventually was overcome & surrendered.We could hardly believe that it had actuallyhappened as they charge was so remarkable.However we were in a precarious position still-30 miles from our base, horses & men tiredhorses not watered for a whole day & men withoutrations & a fresh enemy force advancing on us. The prisoners to the number of 1600 &the mountains battery were rounded up & removed.All ambulances had been ordered previously totake to their heels with their wounded & go for theirlives. They all obeyed with the exception of ours &stray oddments of others such as a sand cart ortwo & one officer. The Colonel was away on thefield collecting wounded & so was Capt Bassett& I was directing the sand cart operations todifferent in charge of a the central place where wewere collecting our wounded to on the field &directing the carts to the necessary quarters.I soon had 30 or 40 cases including some Turkish wounded & it being now quitedark had two hurricane lanterns one todress wounded with & the second placedon a rise as a guide to the carts.It was only then that I learnt of the approachof Turkish reinforcements as our staffCaptain came along & said that we wouldhave to go & that quickly. I just was verybusy attending wounded & just said it wasimpossible & went on & would you believe itnever thought another word or Turkish reinforcementsor being taken prisoner & even forgot to mentionit to the Colonel when he returned sometimelater, as I was so busy. However I sentoff a message to the ADMS our chief medicalman telling his the number of woundedwe had - far more than our carts wouldcarry, which was the reason for our makinga central collecting place on the field - & toldhim that many more were still on thefield. I went on dressing - one man bledfrightfully from a terrible wound in the legs & Ihad to stop that as best I could & x therewere men arriving every moment needing dressing& morphia to ease their pain. It was then that I participated in a scene which will remain in my memoryas long as I live. A New Zealand officer had beenshot in the stomach & while I was attending him vomitedup a large amount of blood & from his appearance Ithought he could not live more than a few momentsso I said to him - "In case anything happens to youcan I do anything for you". It was very blunt I fearbut he calmly said or rather whispered "That's right doctor, I'm gladyou put it plainly I would like to write to my wife& mother." So he dictated & I wrote a note to eachwhich he signed at the bottom, as he was just barelyable to do, one two of the noblest & most pathetic letterspossible. He simply stated that he thanked Godhe had died doing his duty, sent them his love& bad them goodbye. And when it was all finished,he said "But I'm not done yet doctor, & I'm goingto live if I can". All I can say is that Ihope when my turn to die comes I may facedeath in a similar manner.I don't think any previous experience in my life hasso affected me as that scene.However he did not die then & I brought him back someten miles later on & the last I heard of himwas that he was still living & let us devoutlyhope that my original prognosis was wrong, thoughhis chances were very poor. We had the field clearedof wounded about nine o'clock & then took them back to our xxxx dressing station therear some two miles away but it tookmany trips of the sandcarts to do it.But no conveyances were now to hand whichwould clear away our wounded & we decidedto remain there during the night. The Brigadesmoved away and left a small number to protectus & our Brigadier was a very anxious manwhen he left us, as he thought almost atthe mercy of the Turks but he could notdo otherwise as he had to go back to water thehorses & feed the men. However nothing happened& the Colonel took most of the bearers backabout 2 a.m. & then Bassett & I took offour own carts full of wounded aboutfour o'clock & Major White remained tillnext morning when a convoy came outand took him & his wounded back aboutten a.m. The party of troops remained alittle longer & towards midday wereattacked by some hostile troops for cavalry & camel forces whomthey drove off & took 14 of them prisoners &then returned. We arrived here about 9 p.m.that night, terribly weary as we had had nosleep during the previous two nights & had ridden over QUICK TO STRIKE3RD LIGHT HORSE BRIGADE.70 miles & been through so much excitement & work. HoweverI am looking back on it with satisfaction & when our Brigadewas paraded by the General commanding our division a day ortwo ago to in order to address them on the result of thefight, our Ambulance was very highly commended forthe work it had done & afterwards the Colonel Major White& myself were asked to morning tea with our Brigadieras a mark of appreciation.Now my dear mother I have given you a full & trueaccount of what happened & I don't think youwould have me do otherwise than I did. When possibleI avoided risk but where the plain path of duty calledme to risk myself for the sake of those men wounded& in need of attention I could not do otherwise thanrisk it. E This last fight has made me realize as neverbefore that there is something greater than even excelling in theprofession of healing & that is the sacrifice if necessary ofoneself for them. Mind you, this is all very well in peace &quietness but one's resolution is very apt to falter at thelast minute when in the stress of battle as mine almostdid on several occasions the other day as I was beastlyfrightened but that is the point of view I take.Don't think from this, my dear, that I'm lookingfor risks & am going to run into them. Foryour sake & my own I'm dodging all the risks I reasonably can, and I don't think we willever have a battle again where conditions are sounfavorable for us in our work & I don't thinkwe are going to have much hard work of the kindjust at present. Moreover I feel that I'm comingback all right to you, but I want you not to worrybecause this last thing was a little dangerousbut rather to feel pleased that you were able togive one of your sons to help the wounded in thewar. And now my dear goodbye for thepresent I do hope you won't worry aboutthis with lots of love fromYour loving sonWilf