Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 28 November 1915 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Anzac Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9th L.H. Regiment,Anzac,November 28th 1915My dear mother,I am writing to you this time from my bunkas it is the warmest spot, my feet right away down in myblankets & the upper part of my body clad in undershirtpjama coat, cardigan & sheep skin to keep me warmwhile I write. The weather is now bitterly cold & lastnight we had a fairly heavy fall of snow followingrain so that the place is moderately slushy. It isbeen snowing a little today but has eased off tonightbut there are still two or three inches of snow on theground - reminds one of Cooma as also do the winds,which are fairly high and bleak. We find make ourselvesvery comfortable at night like this by going to bedas soon as tea is finished & smoking a pipe orreading until it is time to go to sleep - generallyabout nine o'clock. I am still in my old bivouacor dug out (bivvy for short) with the New Zealandmedico as his cover had not arrived until it rained& snowed and now we are waiting until the grounddries before moving. Pray don't imagine that I'mgetting frozen because I'm not, when I went fora walk through the snow covered trenchesthis morning I had my rubber Wellington boots on which effectively kept my feet dry (whichreminds me of Eden & Mrs Chopin laughing atyou about worrying lest my feet should get weton the beach - poor mother how the variousvicissitudes of life separate us at the call of duty & howlittle motherly powers of protection avail us in later years,but it is only for you I am distressed, I am doinghere what I should be doing & as I previously toldyou there should be no regrets in my doing so, for itis to help others & our country & I hope you are satisfiedlong before this, not but that I am looking forwardto a happy reunion in the months to come) & to proceed,an overcoat and rainproof cap & I quite enjoyeda brisk walk round to see that the sanitationwas good, & had a look in at the mensbivouacs in the trenches which are dug outfrom the sides & roofed over with tin if availableor waterproof sheets & generally hold aboutsix men in each. They seemed for the mostpart fairly dry & comfortable though therewere a few grumblers as there always will be,but some were quite cheerful & happy. Of courseit is not the best occupation in the world formen on a cold night to take their turns ofobservation in the trenches - two hours on & four off -but no one expects war to be a picnic & theauthorities are doing their very best to lookafter the men. I think I am not oversteppingthe censorable mark in saying these things though one has to be very careful. Being on a hillhere with a fairly steep ascent the roadsbecame very slippery with the road so that thecommissariat department had their trials on bringingup stores but they succeeded very well. You doubtlessnow that mules & donkeys are very largely used for transport& they are wonderful creatures, horses would be ofvery little use, but these animals are quiet & can carrysuch big loads up steep ascents & are so readilyhandled except when they become stubborn. Wesley& I see each other almost every day as the distancebetween us is so short & we can easily visit each other inthe afternoon. Parry of whom you have heard mespeak before & who is with the 16th Battalion paidus a visit this week & told us his various experiencesThree tins of soup arrived from Egypt this week sentaccording to order by Stephen so that one or two of theparcels we ordered asked him to send manage tocome through safely but not the chocolate. I'mgoing to write & ask him to send some baking powdersoon as up to the present it has been unprocurableon the Peninsula. It is very difficult for me towrite you a decent newsy letter my dear, aswe only see a few people, & apart from personalmatters we can really say very little on account ofcensorship. We have had no mail again this week worse luck, I suppose it all went down withthat ship. I am longing to hear from you againbut suppose that some of your letters are at thebottom of the sea - better luck next time.It's wonderful how one appreciates letters out hereeven more than in Egypt as we seem so cut offfrom the outside world. I have now been here fortwo months - time has flown since I came over hereseems to have passed much quicker than inEgypt. I'm afraid I'll have to end amost uninteresting letter with love to allthe family with mother's usual sharefromHer loving son,Wilf.