Author: Wilfred Evans Date: 9 December 1917 Regiment: 9th Light Horse Location: Racecourse Cairo Egypt Nationality: Australian Text: 9.12.1917My dear mother,I rather forget what day it was when Ilast wrote to you, but I have seen one or two fresh places since, sowill be able to tell you a few more things. I don't think I told you ofthe church at Ramleh - the old Aruth Arimythea. It was built someyears ago by the King of Spain on the site of an old church built by RichardCoeur de Lion. It is incorporated in a large building which was found recentlyused as Turkish Headquarters & Flying Corps Headquarters. The churchin deference to the Spainards has been left practically intact & is areally beautiful place. There are several beautiful statues, & ornamentalflowers some of the best I have ever seen, several fine stainedglass windows - a personal gift from the Spanish King I believea fine altar & sanctuary with crucifixes & all complete. Itook a photo inside & hope it will develop well. Thenalso in Ramlah there is the an old Norman tower & adjacentto it a very large ruined church & graveyard which Ibelieve date back to the Crusades also. From the topof the convent now used as a hospital is one of the^most magnificent views I have ever seen. The roof is flat &there is a balustrade round it like the Hotel Metropole& from here can be seen the beautiful "Vale of Sharon"which in spring time must certainly "blossom like therose". Pretty villages can be seen dotted here & theredark clumps of olive trees surrounding the old ruins &modern dwellings intermingled with the lighter freshergreen of the young orange trees. The Jaffa roadcan be seen winding away Northwards & the railwaywhich formerly connected Jerusalem with Damascusmore to the East. The dark rugged hills of Judaea,among which David roamed form a sombre forbiddingay background on the Northern side & among themthe white puffs of shrapnel indicate that fighting isstill going on between the modern Crusaders & theirancient foes. Away to the south stretches thefertile plain with it's vineyards & olive groves &villages in apparently endless succession.The spires of Ludd which is near Ramleh form aprominent feature of the landscape & the mostprominent of these belongs to the old church of StGeorge of Merrie England. From the outside - theonly portion I have seen, it is an uninviting massof grey stone, surrounded by a squalid villagewith cobbled streets on which my horse showed imminentsigns of falling with a crash so I beat a hurriedretreat without further investigation.Jaffa is a much larger place than either of thesebut, unfortunately my stay there was a very short one& I was unable to see very much of it.The country around it is exceptionally pretty though &as one approaches from the east, there is a fine orphanage built by one of the powers for some charitable object or other.One enters the town & without warning there opens the central -market square in which is a large clock tower builtof stone with a four faced clock on it. Even nowit is quite a busy place this market square & vendors offruit & vegetables, meat & fish, are driving a busytrade & drawing so much cash from the unwary soldierin exchange for as little as they possibly can, in spite ofthe lists of fixed prices which are seen everywhere,setup by our own people. There are turbaned fellowswho might be Turks or Arabs & greasy Greeks, mixed withslim big nosed Jews in their European costume & wearing almostalways flat caps on their heads.There is a fine civilian hospital in Jaffa, at present beingreorganised by our people. We were very interested tosee real hotels & restaurants again, some of whichalready show such signs as "British & Australian Restaurant".There is a big iron foundry also, a very useful thing for usindeed. There are photographers studios, post cardshops & all the other small appendages of civilizationwhich seemed strange to us after having fought for so longin the desert. Some of the residential places seemedvery good & there is a European & native quarter.The Turks or Germans had made some very goodmetalled roads between the main towns here & they are proving very useful to us.Since I last wrote you it has been raining & we havehad rather a wretched time. I have been fortunate inhaving a good field bivouac but some of the poorbeggars have had rather a rough time, as not onlyhas it been wet for 3 or 4 days but bitterly cold &when a fellow has insufficient shelter & his blankets& clothes get wet his lot his not enviable. Howevereverything possible is being done to make them ascomfortable as I can be under the conditions, but atsuch times I always feel what a wretched thing waris to compel men to live under the conditions they do& the men who commence it should pay a very heavypenalty. I am very well & salutations my dear,& hope you are the same very best of loveto all & a hug for motherfromHer loving sonWilf