Author: William Birdwood Date: 27 December 1915. Location: Imbros Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Imbros27 December 1915 My own darling girl.I'm beginning to rather wonder if I am standingon my head or my heels, as I've had so many orders to contraryeffects. A few days ago, it was an order to go to Egypt tomorrow -then to Mudros - then to stay here - now I have to go over there forthe day tomorrow to see Genl. Monro - & I suppose come back here -but goodness knows - & it is very annoying. But I only letsuch things annoy me when I am feeling at all low, as II think I do at present - the after effects I suppose of thisevacuation, for even though it could not possibly have been moresuccessful, yet the whole idea of having come awaywithout getting through gives me the feeling of failure - myhead too keeps bothering a certain amount - I suppose Iought to have had it looked to before, but until the evacuationwas over I didn't feel I could afford to lay up a day ortwo quietly which having it opened up might involve.Now the Doctor has to keep digging at it & opening itdaily which is a bore, but he assures me it will bequite right in a day or so, & I am sure it will.By this time, I hope the old Peacocks have heard ofor from their son. His Regt is here now, on thewithdrawal from Suvla, so I went up to see itone day & at once asked after the boy. I was at first told he was there all right, so I sent for him tocome & see me. The next day however word was sent methat it was another man of the same name who was here,but that their son, had been wounded some little timeago & sent off. I gathered it was not at all bad, justa bullet wound in the leg, but once a man is sent offlike that it is quite impossible for us here to tell wherehe has gone to - he may be in Egypt, Malta or England, but Ihope the old Peacock's have heard of their son, & will you tellthem how sorry I am not to have seen him & how sorry tooto know he is wounded, but that I hope he is well againnow.Rather a curious thing happened the other day, dear oldLotbiniere asked me if I would exchange sticks with himas he would much value & like to keep the one I had usedin my daily visits around the Anzac trenches. Looking atit he discovered a bullet had gone into it & turned abit, & was still sticking in it! I remember one day thinkingit had been hit when I was going round, but neverbothered to look at it, & it's strange the bullet shouldhave remained in it!We had a capital bonfire concert for the menin this camp on Christmas Day - & I must sayI was much touched at the end of it by some one - I think it was Churchill - Winstons' brotherwho is my Camp Commandant here - getting up at theend & shouting "Three cheers for Sir William Birdwood ofAnzac". I thought the men would never stop - they went oncheering till they were tirr tired - & none of my own Australianswere with them either, as I'm sorry to say theyare all over at Mudros. These were all British soldiers -Yeomanry, Engineers etc, & I felt it was so nice of them.By the bye, do tell me if you ever got some rather nicewater colour pictures of Anzac I sent you a long timeago? As a matter of fact, Wagstaff got them for me &sent them off, & he has asked more than once if you evergot them? Also did you ever order the pair of bedroomslippers for me? I've never got them or heard of them,& remember I always acknowledge everything, so if youdon't hear of my getting anything you have sentyou will know I haven't received it - thoughletters often go astray & again I haven't heardfrom you for a long time now - the posts areawful. Do tell me if that sum of 50 oddhas been credited to our account at the Bankas I am having some worries with the Pay people & I must settle about that, unless you can tell me it has been credited all right - do try and remember this.I hear Genl. Skeen is down at Salcombe & now all rightagain so I am much hoping to get him backsoon, though Aspinall has been doing the work for mevery well.Genl. Monro & all his staff are now off to Egypt, leavingme here to run the show - & before me I have just gotorders to carry out what will be far more difficult thanevacuating Anzac & Suvla - however I'm trying to do itall right - provided always the weather is good - badstorms & anything may happen, but I rely on Providenceto see us safely through again.Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love to you.Ever your very loving old,Will. My head is nearly all right again, but the Doctorstill has to open it out every day which istrying, but he says it is healing now nicely.