Author: Hardinge of P Date: 27 July 1917 Rank: Private Nationality: British Text: Private.July 27 1917. My dear Birdwood, Thank you somuch for your letter of the 20th.You will have seen from the papersthe most recent developments relatingto the Mesopotamia report, and howchivalrously Mr. Balfour defendedme, going so far as to threaten evenhis own resignation. What has notso far transpired is the fact thaton each of the three occasions upon which I offered my resignation I madeit conditional upon the Govt givingme a judicial inquiry, the factbeing that the Attorney General hadexpressed the opinion that none ofthe charges made against me wouldbear five minutes judicial investigation.What the Govt wanted was that I shouldresign without having the opportunityto obtain redress, to which of courseI could not agree and in which viewI was strongly supported by Mr. Balfour,in fact so strongly that the Govt hadin the end to refuse to accept myresignation, although a few days before they had suggested to me to resignin order to ease the situation of GovtWas there ever such a display of weaknessand indecision?I am wondering what is going to happento B. Duff. I do hope they will leavehim alone. I hear that Babtie willask for a court martial and is quitecertain to clear himself entirely. Iam told that one of the charges madeagainst him is in relation to somethingthat happened six months after heleft India! I always regarded him asa 1st class Surgeon General, and I hearthat he enjoys the same reputation here.One may well ask the use of these Commissions. I am told that the 2ndDardanelles report is a very bad one& throws a lot of mud everywhere. Ifthe Govt. are wise they will sit on it.The news from Russia is very badand it is difficult to see how it willbe possible to stop the rot that hasset in. We certainly ought not to counton them any more, at least for the present.I hope you are keeping fit and well.My boy has been passed fit, but is notgoing out again yet I am glad to say.I feel battered and worn out, andam going away on the 1st Aug. for afortnight's rest.Ever your'sHardinge of P.