Author: Hardinge of P Date: 27 March 1917 Rank: Private Nationality: British Text: Private.March 27. 1917. My dear General,I am so glad that youcame here the other day and it wassuch a pleasure to me to see you againafter the many successes that you haveachieved. When Bapaume fell I realisedat once that it was your Corps thathad carried the day and I rejoicedaccordingly. I hope that you and theywill do much more yet.What you say about the DardanellesCommission report is perfectly true,but it is only fair to say that I heardthe question of publication discussed at the War Cabinet, to whom the objectionsto publication were vividly apparent, butthe final opinion was that, since theCommission had been appointed by Actof Parliament, it would require anamending Act to prevent publication, andthis the House of Commons would neverconsent to pass. Consequently the nextinstalment of the report as well asthe Mesopotamian report, will begiven to the public in the next two orthree months, but I hope that theCommissioners will have profited by theexperience of this report and makethe others rather more anodyne andless sweeping in their criticisms. We regard the situation in Russia asvery critical. The extremists seem to begetting the upper hand and to be followingan exactly similar course to that ofthe French revolution. We are anxious forthe safety of the Emperor & his family.They are close prisoners & not allowed tosee anybody - if the extremist succeedtheir lives will not be worth a week'spurchase. Moreover the triumph of thesocialists means peace with Germany.So the outlook at present is not very bright,but it may come all right in the end.Much precious time is, however, being wastedand the army is suffering in discipline.What would do more good than anythingelse would be a strong German attack. London is full of pessimists to whom itis very trying to listen. They will not understandthat the Germans had to retire becausethey could not stay where they were, & fearsof traps, counter-attacks &c are freely discussed.In my opinion our advance has had animmense moral effect everywhere & especiallyin Germany, and if we should be able tobreak through the next line in front ofyou, I am sanguine enough to hope thatthe whole fabric might topple of over. Theinternal situation is undoubtedly farworse in Germany than is generally known,but not sufficient of itself to bring collapse.All good wishes to you & your Corpsand may you pull off soon somethingreally very big.Ever your'sHardinge of P.Hardinge of P