Author: F S Maude Date: 5 September 1917 Location: Mesopotamian Nationality: British Text: General HeadquartersMesopotamian Expeditionary Force.5th September, 1917.My dear friendMany thanks for your letter dated June 26th., which hasonly just reached me, so you will see how long it takes for lettersto filter out here.I felt sure that you of all people would appreciate thesplendid work that was done by the Indian troops during theadvance on Baghdad. No praise of mine can be too high forthe magnificent way in which they fought and won, and as youmay well understand I look forward to the coming winter-strenuous though it may be - with every confidence, backedas I am by such men both British and Indian.The troops have had a good rest, and I got them intotheir summer quarters early in May, and from the recent visitswhich I have paid to them from time to time I am satisfiedthat they are in the pink of condition. We have been ableto feed them well during the summer, and consequently theyfeel well and will fight well.The great difficulty I find is getting about here, as Ihave such long distances to cover, seeing that we areoperating now on three river lines which diverge from oneanother, namely the Dialah, Tigris and Euphrates. But bymeans of glisseurs, which are a type of boat which cover from30 to 40 miles an hour, and aeroplanes I manage to get frompoint to point fairly quickly. As regards the glisseurs, Iam getting a new type out here which will cover approximately50 miles an hour, so that will be a greater improvement.Motoring is pain and grief to me because the roads are so bad,and and so when I am on terra firma I generally ride, if distancesare at all possible.We have had an intensely hot summer, and one particularlybad heat wave at the beginning of July was responsible for anumber of deaths even among the strongest, but taking it allin all our sickrate has been remarkable compared to last year,and the admissions have never exceeded 2.5% per week. Theyhave varied between 1.7 and 2.5% throughout the summer, whichis not so bad considering the intense heat to which we havebeen subjected. Now the evenings, nights and mornings area good deal cooler, and though the middle of the day is stillvery hot it makes a lot of difference to get these cool spellsin between.During the off-time - so to speak - from militaryoperations my work has increased if anything, for there hasbeen so much to do here reorganising, developing and preparingfor the future. Our river transport has done wonderfully, asthe river is now about at its lowest, and yet in spite of thiswe have had remarkably few groundings, and what there have beenhave not lasted for long. This reflects great credit on theefficiency of the Inland Water Transport and especially onthe buoying section. Our railways, too, have shown anenormous development during the summer, and it is wonderful to seethe way in which all have worked and put their backs into it.The result is that our communications around and in advance ofBaghdad are improving almost daily, and you will readilyunderstand what a difference that means to us.Operations have of course been impossible, but recentlywe pushed out and occupied Belez Ruz and Shahraban towardsthe Jebel Hamrin, as it was necessary to get possession ofthose places and turn the Turks out of them owing to thedefection of the Russians on our right flank. Their inactivityhas been a great disappointment, for I feel confident that ifthey had pushed along in April last this campaign would havebeen over by now; and even as it is if they would only comealong we might finish it off this winter. But I am afraidthat things are pretty hopeless with them and that we shallhave to rely on ourselves mainly. This I have no doubt thissplendid army will be fully able to do, unless the wholeTurkish Army is arrayed against us and we are swamped bynumbers.Things seem to be going along well on the Western front,and the British, French and italians - especially the latter -are progressing well. The black spot is further East, wherewe hear that Riga has just fallen, and possibly I supposethere is not much between the Germans and St. Petersburg.Truly the Russians have made idiots of themselves, not onlyin prolonging the war but in ruining their future, and it isat least a good example of what can be brought about byupsetting old institutions and the introduction of mob law.I was most intensely interested in the enclosure whichyou sent me giving an account of the fighting of the 1stAnzac Corps in the early part of the year. The old Corpsseems indeed to have done splendidly and to have added onemore crushing success to the long list which it has alreadygained.I hope that Alec Godley continues to flourish and thatall goes well with him and his Corps. I presume that theyare alongside with you?I met Risaldar-Major Husam-ud-Din last November just afterI took over command when I went up to visit the Oilfieldsbefore proceeding to the front, and had a longtalk to him.He seemed a most capable and intelligent person, and I ratherfancy - though I am not sure - that he has got some specialjob job now. However I had already made a mental note of himin case I wanted anybody special of that kind.Best remembrances to all old friends.MacMunn is doing first rate here, and I am just sendinghim off to India for a few days to get things put straight atthat end.Cox is also here as Chief Political Officer. I haveknown him ever since I was at Sandhurst with him and so we areold friends and get along capitally together. My onlydifficulty is occasionally to make him see that it is necessarythat military considerations should prevail whilst we are atwar - but in the end he is convinced all right.Please forgive this line but I am so busyyrs sincerelyF.S. MaudeMaudeTo:Lieut.-General Sir W. BirdwoodK.C.S.I., K.C.M.G.,C.B.,C.I.E.,D.S.O.,Commanding 1st Anzac Corps,British Army in the Field,FRANCE.