Author: William Birdwood Date: 15 May 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: My own darling wife.I have at last got your letter of 21st April - how a noticeyou posted the same day can have reached me a month week ago, & this only now I do not know. I was so glad too to get the little snapshots you sent. The one of Judith standing is really capital - she lookssuch a little monkey & exactly what you were like as a kid!!I can't say one sees very much of you with the dog! I amenclosing a snapshot Mrs. Carruthers took of us - Col. C. Onslow &self just as we were leaving Alexandria: the shade doesn'tgive me much of a chance! I have just lost my AdmiralThursby. I call him mine, as he & his ships have more or lessbeen placed at my disposal & we have been made a littleindependent force to carry on on our own, which is a greatthing. I have found him such a good fellow to workwith in every way - always wanting to do his best to helpus, & as you may care to see it I enclose such a nice letterhe wrote me saying good bye. He takes with him the"Queen" on which I have so often been with him & from whichI did our landing here on 25th, "Prince of Wales", 'London"and two or three others & goes to Malta where he will shortly join the Italian fleet for combined operationsagainst Austria, and I think you will see the Italiansdeclaring war next week. What we most want here is foreither Greece of Bulgaria to come in and land troops at theBulair lines up at the head of this peninsula - that would helpus enormously, as it would prevent the Turks sending downconstant reinforcements as they are now doing, & would drawoff troops from in front of us. They however I fear will not comein, at all events at present, or in time to do us much good.Our attack here certainly hung fire a lot & I can imagine howyou must have longed for the news of our landing. It takesa long time though to settle details which are endless in suchmatters & I certainly thought we should have landed a goodfortnight earlier than we did - one lucky thing we didn't doso was that settled fine weather only started the day welanded & it has been absolutely lovely ever since - just perfectsummer weather. We have had some very cold nights, but theynow seem to be over, and we have one lovely day after another.How lovely it would be if only you were here with me for asummer holiday! You can't imagine anything more lovelythan the sea here is - such a deep blue & so transparentyou can see right down to the bottom far out - and whenfiring isn't going on on the beach it is about as lovelya bathing place as you could wish for. The land we are on has not very much to say for itself in particular,perhaps because we only see such a small piece of it, butthey tell me the Island of Imbros which is just opposite islovely & there are some very pretty wild flowers about heretoo - it seems as if only man was n vile. How beastlyit might be if we had constant rain as was the case upto about 24th April - now it is ideal & here are weconfined to a very few miles of the country. I can so wellimagine Judith as a pixie & I'm sure she must have lookedvery sweet. I am so glad Mrs Wray is always so nice to you atThurlby as there are so few people about there of whom youcan see much. I forget if I told you our Alliance Bankpass book had apparently been lost, so I have asked themto make out another. I had to send Sir G. Ker another chequefor 150 as I found the account there was so much out -and I fear later on I shall have to pay the Somerleyton rentas though Edie & Bob have both worried like anything aboutit & done all they could, they haven't been able to sublet -though I hope Edie may perhaps still be able to do so ata reduction. It is of course about the worst possible yearto be trying to do so.I have just been so glad to get your letters of 4th &6th, May which have come along in capital time from the War Office. Many thanks for thinking of sending theshirts, socks & hankies from Harrods. They haven't of courseturned up yet & I hope will do so all right, but I am not at allsure how parcels can get to this place - and the carrying ofkit is awful, for we have nothing here - no box of any sort, justshaving things etc - and lately some of us have been able to set up a roll of bedding in which one can fortunately always keep spareshirt, socks etc. But the unfortunate men & regimental officers have I think only what they stand up in & can carry on their backs, and Iheard a man say the other day "I am as lowly as a bull"!!Luckily we have the sea, so they can come down in batches &get a swim which is something. No fresh water is however availablefor anyone to wash in - it is difficult enough to get enough for drinking& except for shaving not a drop is allowed for washing - we allhave to use the sea and I enjoy a swim when I can.I think that Lady Moore you mention, was on board with himbut I don't remember her. I imagine she will be ratherAustralian, but it was nice of her to have called. I wonderif Jim Turner will get back to India - the Chief may takehim, but I rather doubt it. Is [[Bundie?]] engaged to thatNaval man & when is she to be married? Poor Lorna I'm sorryfor her & the Body Guard, but that can't be helped & Isee Capt. de Gale has now got it apparently "pucca". Very nice for Beth - fancy he returning to Mussoorieafter all these years. I do wonder if you have have let Fitz &Lord K. know you were in town? You most certainly shoulddo so, as they'll never have known it otherwise & I'm sure Lord Kwill be quite hurt, if he hears afterwards that you werethere for a month & didn't let him know. I think toohe'd like to see his little god-daughter - and I'm so gladyou are going to see old Sir Dighten - it will please himawfully. I didn't quite know what the sum of 100 is whichyou tell me has been credited at the Bank - the 150 & 148as far as I remember would be all right - and the 255, but Idon't remember the 100, but it is sure to be all right. As so muchmore is accumulating than you can want I think it will bebest if you keep say a few pounds to your credit (another 255will be paid in monthly) and then write to Mr Watson - (J.W. Esq)1 Tokenhouse Buildings, Lothbury. E.C & tell him youwant him to invest the balance (whatever it is) in anythinghe thinks suitable. He has done this for us for years &is to be trusted. The Bank know him & between them they willdo everything for you. It is always as well to have it investedin this way, as in any case it means not having all oureggs in one basket, while at the Bank a large balancesimply lies idle. I'm glad you are to meet Mr PollenLady I.H. He has been most awfully nice to me, & so has she whenever I have seen her & I have always likedMrs Pollen. Sir Ian or Capt. P. I see very little of - justfor a very few minutes when they have been over here twice since welanded - they are living in great comfort on a ship. I can hardlybelieve in Mrs Cobbe driving her own motor through London - Icall that perfectly marvellous in a nervous, high strung womanlike her. Is he still on Sir J. Willcocks staff?When going through the poor Villains few things here we came across twoletters in his note book, one for his wife & the other to you which I enclose.Written 2 days before his death, they seem so pathetic & seem such asad but nice memory of him & show to a small extent what a verydear good fellow he was & I still can't think of his having gone. Iknow you will like to have his letter.I was writing to your father yesterday while we were in the midst ofa tremendous attack by the Turks under their German General Liman vonSanders. From some of the prisoners we hear that two newTurkish Divisions of their crack troops from Constantinople werelanded in the Straits 2 days ago & brought over here to join in theattack against us. This gave them about 33,000 men againstmy 12,000. If only von Sanders had attacked one point ofmy trenches with his whole force, he must have been nearly certain to getthrough, but as he made several disjointed attacks we were able tobeat them off one after another with heavy loss. The whole place isnow strewn with dead Turks & I tremble to think of what an awfulstate it may be in a short time hence if we are unable tobury them. I asked one Australian how many he thought there were in front of his Regt - he said he didn't know in men,but he knew there were 8 acres of them! Such a roar as wasgoing on all the time. They started all their guns - we calculated about 100 of them on here as soon as ever it was light, andevery sort of projectile came tumbling along, from a huge 14"shell fired right away from across the peninsula from one of theDardenelles Forts, to small mountain guns. It was surprising whatlittle harm they did as we all sat tight till the shelling wasover. The huge "Jack Johnsons" you can only take your chance of, & alarge number of them injured only very few men. By midday theTurks seemed to have had enough of it & their attacks slackedoff. I quite expected a great attack again at dark but itdidn't come off. I fancy they were too done & couldn't be broughtup to the scratch. However late this afternoon a whole lot ofthem appeared with white & red crescent flags, followed by alot of unarmed men evidently with the idea of burying thedead & getting the wounded. Behind all these however wesaw masses of armed men collecting & an officer who wentforward to talk with their white flag saw their trenchessimply crowded with fully armed men. Their idea evidentlywas to keep playing about in our front with their deadtill dark & then probably to rush their armed men through theburial parties & confusion before we were ready, & whenwe could make no use of our guns in the dark. SoI waved off all their flags & told them we couldn't talk about these things so late in the evening, but would do sonext morning if they wished. As soon as their flags went, theyat once began a tremendous attack again. I thought thiswould develop into something really big. The very second I heard of theirwhite flags I at once before doing anything else, sent round orders for every manto stand to arms in the trenches & for all my guns to be laid on theirtrenches, so the second they began we were ready for them & I had atleast a good half hour of daylight in which to use my guns well.They gave two or three desultory attacks during the night &at one time began a bombardment of my poor little beach withbig guns. But evidently were not on for pressing anything verymuch home after their recent losses. I fancy they may nowthink it as well to wait for still more reinforcementsas we hear they have further Divisions now coming downfrom Bulair, but whether to be used against me or Ian H'sforce I don't yet know.Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love to you Ever your very loving old,Will. Mediterranean Expdy Force