Author: Hardinge of P Date: 6 May 1917 Location: Gloucester Place Nationality: British Text: 24 Gloucester Place. May 6, 1917.My dear General,Many thanks for yourletter of April 17 which I was delightedto get and to hear such good news ofthe doings of your Corps. The fightingthat is now going on seems to betremendous, in fact it looks as thoughit may almost be decisive, for ifwe really beat the Germans now Idoubt if their "morale" will hold out,While if we do not I ask myself whatthe attitude of the French may be. As it is there is much too much intriguegoing on in high places in France in whichthe Generals are mixed up, and it makesme smile to think that appointmentsto commands are in some cases decidedon the point whether the candidate goesto Church or not.The situation in Russia could hardlybe worse. On the Austrian front not ashot has been fired for nearly a monthWhile at Riga & Dninsk the troops arefraternising. There is no discipline andit seems to me doubtful whether theRussians will fight any more. In anycase they will not be fit to fight for severalmonths. How I hate the word Democracy!If we lose the war it will be due to democracy, and if we win it will be in spite of it.My own impression is that the revolutionin Petrograd is not nearly over yet andthat there will yet be bloodshed.The submarine menace is serious, butit will not be fatal. The Admiralty haveat last woke up to the fact that somethingmust be done, and assistance from theyounger men has been invoked. Hithertoall suggestions from that source have beenturned down, but now the younger men willhave their chance. Convoying has been hithertoscoffed at but is now to be tried. Neverthelessout of 1200 colliers conveyed to Franceonly 3 have been lost.The Americans will be of considerableassistance when they are ready. They aregoing to send a small regular force at once to France, and they have offered us100,000 volunteers which we have accepted.It is not known yet what their formationwill be.Maude continues to do well near Bagdad,but owing to the paralysis of the Russianforces the cooperation which was promisedcannot now be made. It is the samestory on all the Russian fronts.Alec is here on sick leave, having had aslight attack of trench feet. He shouldhave returned to France today but he isto go before a medical board in a few days.I am naturally glad to have him as longas I can.I hope that you are keeping fit & well.Wishing you and your Corps the bestof luck & much success.Ever yours,Hardinge of P. I am so glad Willcocks hasgot a Colonial Governorship.I wish [[?]] could get something.