Author: William Birdwood Date: 8 December 1915. Location: Daedanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dardanelles Army8 December 1915My own darling girl.The mails are getting worse than ever, for the last Ihave from you is still 31st October! And I have just had a wire tosay that an Austrian submarine has captured the mails wesent from here on 30th last month - they say that some of the letters wererescued by two ladies. That is all we know, & I am afraid themajority must have gone. These were all in charge of the Kings messengerwhich we naturally always look upon as quite the safest &quickest way to send them. I certainly sent one letter by him to you -and I rather think two, for there had been no chance of writingfor some time - and I think I sent letters to both Nancy & Chriswith photos & stamps. It is hard to remember what letters wentby that particular mail, but I rather think it would have containeda long one I wrote from H.M.S. Lord Nelson. I wish you would try &remember when you answer this if you got one dated addressed from there &dated about 24th or 25th November? I fancy it is quite possiblethat in it I answered - as I have done two or three times now!about all the things you have written about. Mrs Hilton's moneyfor Chris - all the parcels you have sent me, & all of which I haveI think received - your investments etc. Isn't it awfullyannoying this sort of thing happening, for it means one neverknows where one is - what we have either of us received or not,if letters are liable to be captured one has to be so verycareful in future to write nothing about events here. Iam afraid too it must be nearly certain that one ofyour letters must have gone down in the mail which was torpedoed & sunk between Egypt & here about a month ago& goodness knows what it contained! 1900 mail bags of sorts! If my letter which must now have gone astray was about moneymatters - & if you have not already done so - will you besure to let me know if a sum of about 50 or 52 was creditedto our account in the N. Bank of India at least 3 or 4 monthsago. It was for lodging allowance in Egypt & I particularlywant to know about it - as if it hasn't been so credited Imust see about it and get it this done as soon as possible.I expect though before this reaches you, you will already havewritten to tell me about it - I can't remember what all theother items were about, but I hope that in any case you will havehad answers about them by other letters, as I have now mentionedthem so often!! I hope Major Storr will have sent you that New Zealand greenstone"Tiki" which Sir H. Meux sent me. Will you please send meback the typed description (or better still a copy of it) which I want toshow to some of the Maoris here, as I am told they can tellme a lot of most interesting history about it, if I ever showthem this, while the "tiki" itself, they say would be at oncerecognised! A New Zealander to whom I was talkingabout it a few days ago, told me he had had to pay40 a short time ago for a quite inferior one about 50years old & that this, would be valued out there atquite a high figure - in fact he said at it wasalmost priceless. I am glad to say my men are getting well over the effects of that blizzard, though the numbers I had to send away wereawful & I shall never forget, the misery of seeing wretched fellowshobbling along with their feet wrapped up in sacking & everystep being agony - Too many of them for all to be carried, so allbut bad cases had to hobble to the beach to be taken off to thehospital ships.I have been seeing a good deal of the French troops lately - theyare such a contrast to ours, especially in their native troops.The Senegalese are huge great niggers & just as black as the blackestof boots! Absolutely like tar right to the inside of their lips! They absolutely curl up with the cold, so we are arranging tosend them all off from here & they will be replaced by Frenchmen. Then they have West Indians too from Guadalupe &Martinique - smaller & brown men - a great many half casteFrench I fancy. They are French Citizens & Christians. Beingcitizens they are conscripted & have all the privileges of aFrenchman, & consequently are absolutely mixed up withthem in every company - got the same food, clothes etc - & liveentirely with the Europeans. To us after the Indian Army thisseems so strange. The Senegalese are mostly Muhammadansbut some are heathens & idol worshippers. Hardly any of theFrench officers can talk to them in their own language, butmost of them have learnt a certain amount of French - halftheir N.C.O's are French.Do you remember Major Pollok in the Black Watch?He was A.D.C to old Sir. A. Reid & was asking afteryou & your Father when I saw him the other day at Helles. I think he was then, or became afterwards Pollok-Moins, but has now become Pollok-McCall - money I supposein commanding a Territorial Brigade. Quite a nice fellow, &was very anxious about being remembered to you both -You have never in any of your letters told me anythingabout Wylly - beyond the fact that he was wounded longago - Is he quite all right again now & back with his Brigade?I heard from some Tasmanians who were writing to me abouta son of theirs here, that he had been staying at Thurlbyto convalesce & wanted to know how he was - I could onlysay I didn't know he had been there, but thought he was rightagain now.I am hoping to get Wagstaff as my A.M.S. He is really much toogood for it & will lose a lot of pay in by coming, so it is onlywith reluctance for his sake that I haven't quite liked taking him,but he has been so very nice in insisting on his keenness ofcoming with me in any capacity that I have asked for him, & willnaturally be delighted to have him with me - In fact, I havebeen so very touched, by all my old Staff, coming up one after theother & imploring me to have them on my Army Staff - this I cannot well do, as naturally Godley can not spare them allnor have I places for them all here. I am so glad he hassucceeded me in the Army Corps, as he is such a real goodfellow, who has worked for me most loyally in Command of theNew Zealanders ever since we started in Egypt a year ago.I am sending some rather nice snapshots which were taken atdifferent times when Lord K was here. Goodbye my own littlewife - I am having a very difficult & most trying time of it with many. Will