Author: William Birdwood Location: Anzac Cove TurkeyDate: 17 May 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling little girl.You can imagine what a state of depression I feelin today & one is almost afraid of becoming unnerved when lossessuddenly come on one - though that is the very last thing onecan afford to be at times like these & whatever happensone has to appear cheery & confident. It makes such a differencebeing in command oneself or merely carrying on & obeyingorders. Though Sir Ian is C-in-C - and a most charming one - yetI have to run the show here entirely on my own & am entirelyresponsible. He is a dozen miles off where he has 5 Divisions &has only been to see me twice - which I take it is quite a compliment& shows he is quite satisfied with my command. It is a big responsibilitythough as we still do not hold by any means an impregnable position.I have 10,000 rifles while round me are about 24,000 Turks & firingstill never ceases. Every other night or so it rises at times to a perfectroar & the Turks must get through many thousands of rounds. You can never tell that this does not mean a very large attack& possible piercing of my line in some vital spot, so I alwayshave to be very much on the alert - which is the great thing mymen are not! However we have now killed so many of them & have I think established our moral superiority over them, that I doubtif they will really rise to attacking us with the bayonet &all their heavy fire is merely to frighten us off from attacking them! There must be some brave men among them ofa beastly description in snipers, for even now we are catching menhiding in holes right inside our valley where they have been 3 weeks.They have had a supply of ammunition & food with them & have justpicked off any one they could & I fear have accounted for a lot ofgood men - the whole place is covered with very thick scrub whichin places is nearly impenitrable, so it has been easy for a manto lie up & never be discovered using smokeless powder. Yesterday theAustralians caught one with 3 Identity discs & 80 on him, whichhe had evidently taken from men he had killed - one such sniperhad painted his face green! Isn't it awful - they get very shortshift when caught. Which brings me to why I feel so depressed.I think I told you Genl. Bridges had been so seriously wounded &I fear now they hold out no hopes of his recovery - both thefemoral vein & artery were cut & though a Doctor happened to beactually on the spot, yet he naturally lost much blood & he isnot a man who can afford to do so. He is such a nicecharming fellow. Considerably older than me, he might wellhave resented my coming here, but far from doing so, he ishas always been full of loyalty & deference, and has doneall he possibly can to help in every way. Such a nicequiet, cultured creature, who I thought might haveproved rather high strung & nervous under fire. Nota bit of it - he was quite happy under it & was doingexcellently. His loss from a professional point of view is immense as we have so many Australian details toconsider, which only he knew about, & I'll find it difficultnow. Whether one of these wretched snipers got him or it was along distant shot, we will never know. I went on board thehospital ship yesterday to see him off to Egypt & was told hisleg was mortifying & that amputation would he necessary, whilethey feared there was little or no chance of his being able tostand the operation, or indeed living to get to Egypt. It was mostsad leaving him & I had to arrange for him to be buried at Alexandria if he died at sea. Then I came ashore & was metby the most awful news that while I had been away, mybeloved Villiers-Stuart had been killed. You will of coursehave seen this, & you will know now much I feel it.Only the evening before when he came to see me with hisreports, I noticed a scratch on his nose & asked himhow he got it. He said he had been out scouting & gotthis creeping through the bushes. I then & there orderedhim not to do this again as I valued his life muchtoo much to risk it in such a manner with little or noobject. When I was out he went off to make a sketch ofsome of the Turk trenches from a place right in thecentre of our position where he should have been fairly safe.Foolishly enough he seems to have exposed himself unnecessarily & at a place close to where we have some of our guns, at which the enemy often fire, and they began againpossibly at him or the guns. In any case they got him witha bit of shrapnel in the heart & he must have died at once.Poor dear old fellow - it does seem too awful - so true,brave, able & modest as he was. We buried him last night(it isn't safe to do so during the day) in a regular soldier'sgrave, for guns were booming even then & several bullets whistled over head as we stood round. I shall feel his loss verymuch as he was so completely reliable & faithful - my mostdevoted of friends & officers. How sorry one must feel for hertoo, poor thing, expecting as she is No. 1 next month. I havejust sent her & his brother a line. You will I am sure wantto do so too, Castlane, Carrick-on-Suir, Ireland willfind her. I wired to his brother to break the news toher. All here were so fond of him, & I do hope I may loseno more. They are all so good & careful of me, & I see howat nights they make the sentry stand absolutely at the entranceof my dug out - they are so afraid of any wretched spy (wefind these snipers are wearing our uniforms) coming along& wanting to do for me. I don't think they will succeed inthat as I have an excellent guard of Ceylon Planters whoare such a nice lot of fellows. I am, I am sorry to say, nowlosing my Admiral Thursby who I shall miss very much, but he has to take the Queen and some other ships to Malta - we have worked together so happily - that he will be a loss. I get "Canopus" in place of "Queen". Goodbye,my own littleone. I hear a raid is just going. All my love to you.Ever your very loving old, Will.