Author: F S Maude Date: 16 May 1917 Nationality: British Text: General Headquarters,Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force.16th May, 1917.My dear GeneralMany thanks for you kind letter of congratulationsfor which I am most grateful.Everything has gone most smoothly out here and we havebeen very lucky, whilst I cannot tell you how splendid thetroops have been. As a result of five months incessantfighting our men care nothing for the Turks and go slap atthem whenever they see them even across the most openground. Only the day before yesterday a squadron ofcavalry was held up at a small village, so the SquadronCommander placed his machine guns in position and carriedthe village by a mounted charge. I only mention this astypical of the splendid spirits of the troops. the fiercefighting in the Hai salient, the passages of the Tigris andDialah, and the final storming of Sannaiyat were inparticular fine pieces of work on their part, and I feelsure that if the Turk pays us any more attention he willreceive an equally warm welcome as he got before.The weather here is already intensely hot, and havingaccomplished all that we set out to do we are busy settlingdown to summer camps, where I trust the troops will get amuch needed rest and where I hope that we shall make themas comfortable as possible.Personally i look forward to a busy summer. Presentand future operations, Arab tribesmen all round, extendedlines of communication, the exploiting of local supplies,new railways, proximity of the Russians, political questions,the reorganisation of the civil and military administrationof Baghdad, and a hundred other items will give one plentyto do.Our movements must have been particularly interestingto you with your accurate and recent knowledge of thecountry.You are quite right in saying that the railway workshopshere were good. Indeed everything we found wasdone on a magnificent scale and evidently the Germansmeant to stay. We did not get any rolling stock to speakof here, but when we got into Samarrah we got a good dealthere, and though some of it was damaged most of it isrepairable.We watch with interest your fine progress on theWestern front and are hoping daily to hear of furthersuccesses there.Yrs sincerelyF.S. MaudeMaudeTo:Lieut.-Gen. Sir W.R. Birdwood, K.C.S.I., K.C.M.G., C.B., C.I.E.,D.S.O.Commanding 1st Anzac Corps,British Army in the Field,F R AN C E.