Author: William BirdwoodDate: 30 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling little wife.28 today!! Just think of it - 30th Septemberyour birthday and 28. I am sure you don't feel olderor look it - and it is all that, that counts for age - notactual years- & I have never known anyone remain such a realkid as you do. I am glad too to say I feel quite youthfulagain after having been rather old for a bit! You will Ifancy be spending your birthday at Thurlby & Kates quietlywith I fancy only your father & Judith there, as I imagine theothers will all be away. Here we are having a quiet day ofit too - or rather it has begun so, for one can never tell to whata state of "hate" the Turkish guns (which are all manned byGermans) may or may not work up to by the evening - Some daysthey are quiet - often they fire away a lot. I fancy it depends agood deal on how much ammunition they have in hand- The daybefore yesterday they put in over 200 rounds at one Battery of minejust above my headquarters in an hour or so, but did very littleharm. Yesterday they got a shell right into Walker's dugout whilehe was there, wrecking the whole place & burying him, but luckilyhe was untouched! Another of my Generals - an Australiancalled Ryrie got a 75 gun shrapnel bullet in his throat.It just missed the artery & is still in his throat, buthe is little the worse & it will be removed today. A very nice fellow a Capt. Lloyd is going home today & maytake this with him. If you are in town & he writes toarrange a meeting I hope you will see him. He waswith Genl. Maxwell's staff all the time I was in Egyptwhen I saw a lot of him & he has always been fearfullykeen on being on my staff instead of on Sir Ian's wherehe is. He is not a soldier - but a Warwickshire Yeoman &an M.P. - though he looks a boy & a subaltern! He hasfor a long time taken a great interest in Turkish affairs& speaking that language fairly well is used in intelligence& interpreting, and now goes home to see the war & foreignoffices on such matters. He is I fancy a fairly richman as his people are Lloyd's Bank. His wife wasa maid of honor to Queen Alexandra & is consequentlya great friend of dear old Sir Dightons & struckme as such a very nice woman when I saw her inEgypt for a short time- She only came there justbefore we left. I only tell you all this abouthim in case he arranges a meeting & he is sucha very nice fellow. I'd like you to see him& he would give you latest news about me. He is an able fellow too & gets on quite theright lines as regards political & intelligencematters here & I hope his visit home (it is only to bea very short one I believe) may do some real good inone or two matters which have been neglected.If you are in town soon, I want you to go & see aBrig-Gen McCay 10 Carlton Horse Terrace. He is oneof my Australian, Brigadiers who did very well in all ourearly work here, Col. got hit in his leg - came back &his leg went again, so he had to be told off & was operatedon in Malta & is now in hospital recovering. Whenwell enough he will go back to Australia before rejoiningme here. I'd much like you to go & see him, butunless you are in town soon I fancy he will havebeen sent off back to Australia. If by any chance hehas left. Carlton Ho. Terrace, Sir George Reid's office wouldbe able to give out his address. He is a lawyer by trade.A nonplus fellow & member of the Australian Parliamentepronounces his name Mackie.You may like to see the enclosed form poor Lady Bridgesto whom I wrote on her husband's death- shemust be a nice woman. I have just got a letterof yours dated 15th Oct, but there are evidentlyothers of previous dates to which you refer. You don't mentionLord K's speech in the House of Lords about me & my staff& Australians. Have you seen it? I haven't seen the papersyet - but Mrs Wagstaff sent him an extract of it whichseemed very nice & I must say it is a great thing. Assuch things are not often said for nothing in Parliament.I must try & get hold of it later & you might keep acutting of it, if you can find it. It should be about15th Sept. Percy I imagine may have been in thislast big advance which seems to have been very successfulbut about which we have as yet no details.Goodbye my own little lamb. I close this adviceas George Lloyd may be able to take itwith him I fancy he will go with the King'smessenger very fast. I'll be thinking of you somuch all day of your birthday & with allmy love to you. Ever your very loving old.Will.