Author: William Birdwood Date: 4 December 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: 4 December 1915.My own darling girlI am wondering if you have suddenly got a big batchof my letters as some one here tells me his wife after nothaving heard from him for weeks has written to say that 12letters have appeared together! Goodness knows what happens tothem, as they are impossible to trace. Lately our letters from homehave been far worse than usual - I have nothing from you since31st October - 5 weeks ago. If however you eventually do get allmy letters I don't so much mind. The 2 stoves have justarrived & will I am sure be real useful, little one. Harrodshad packed them very well, but both were in the same box - notsent separately as you said. The shortbread has arrived too &is very much appreciated at tea which we all have togetherin the mess, where all your tinned fruit is also most welcome.But as I have said do not send more.We have just been through a really terrible time of it - worse sothan who were there - tell me they even had in France last year.It began with a tremendous storm of rain & S.W. wind, whichsuddenly turned round to N.E. and came down in a regular blizzardof snow & sleet with 12 frost. The cold wouldn't have matteredso much but for the wind, which simply killed the men.The Corps on my left at Suvla had by far the worst time ofit as unfortunately there is there a lot of very low lyingground through which run several nullahs. These all camedown in spate, 6 and 7 feet deep and in places justwashed men away and drowned them. Then came on the extreme cold & men just froze. In one Territorial Division themen for a great part just chucked it, leaving their trenches& arms! Weaklings of boys I suppose who couldn't stand it.You can imagine how bad it was when actually over 150 mendied from exposure and about 6500 had to be evacuated for exposure,trench feet or frost bite. Some of the dead were quite frozen into theground & could not be removed for 2 or 3 days. A good many ofthose evacuated will of course recover but they will be fearfullyshaken & probably not much good for a long time to come. Feet arethe worst things - [[once?]] feet swell they cannot get their boots onagain, while it is essential to take boots off at least once in24 hours or you get frost bitten.My own old Corps were not nearly so bad, as not only hadthey much better country for protection, but 2 or 3 months agoI kept urging them all to dig caves & trenches in the hill sidesfor themselves, as though timber & corrugated iron had been orderedfor them for shelter, I felt sure they we should get bad weatherbefore the shelter arrived. Consequently nearly all my menwere comfortably provided for. Still am sorry to say some ofmy Indian Brigade came in for a bad time of it. TwoGurkha Regts were just relieving some Territorials whenthe blizzard came on & could get no shelter. In one ofthem, the 10th Gurkhas - about 250 men have had to beevacuated for trench feet, & they tell me that one unfortunatehavildar will have to have both his feet amputatedfor frost bite - you don't feel it coming on, & whenurged to go & get his boots off, he wouldn't do so saying he was all right, & then when he had to go theyfound him in this state - isn't it awful? Our only consolationis, that the Turks have had a far worse time of it thanwe have : their trenches are higher up than ours and arestill full of snow. When the nullahs came down in spate, theywashed down lots of dead Turks & animals, while a deserterwho came in says practically all his company has beenwiped out & they had 2 machine guns washed away. We knowthat they have practically no warm clothing or blankets, so Ifancy their losses must have been enormous. They are howevermore fortunate than we are in having reserves in villagesbehind there they were able to push up at once & relievetheir troops, while we have not got these. Whatone would of course love to do, would be to shove on atonce & attack them while knocked out in the cold, but I amafraid our troops are not up to this after all they have beenthrough. I don't know when I have been so cold - itseemed quite impossible to keep warm at all in spiteof your hot water bottle, which came in to lovely use forthe first time! This blizzard has come a good month beforeit is due as the oldest inhabitants tell us we ought notto expect real bad weather till January, when I fear we mayhave more doses of this.I don't think the Turks got many of our men during the stormbut we got a lot of theirs who had to come out & try to getaway across the open when they were flooded out of theirtrenches, their communication trenches were rivers! Rather hard lines to be caught like that!I still do not know what is to happen here, as plans are soconstantly altered; we may be on for anything! I wouldn'tfeel a bit anxious but for the time of year. The weather is nowso continuously bad that one cannot rely on it from one dayto another, and one can hardly count on being able to movetroops & stores etc by sea for more than 2 nights a week - whichmakes the situation always serious. If you could have seen thelittle Gurkhas hobbling about with their feet wrapped up insomething with their feet all swollen & every step agony, you wouldrealize how we have to fear the weather. You can imagineI don't relish my daily trips on a destroyer - but it is oftentoo rough for one to be able to get on to one - The destruction here inthat last storm was awful - about a dozen steam boats allpiled up one on top of the shore, which means a fearful lossof power to us.Goodbye my own little wife - I fear this is rather a gloomyletter. I enclose letters you may care to see from Genl Smith-Dorrien & Genl Cox (who I am glad to say is now K.C.M.G.)& one from my Uncle Roger which is interesting if one realizesthat a few years ago he was an Atheist!Ever so much love to you always --Ever your very loving old,Will.Just had a couple of German aeroplanes dropping bombs overus! Bad shots though. Alterationsin importantplans whichI personallyhate - so Iam reallybothered - &have practicallyno staff to helpme.All my love thenEver your veryLoving oldWill