Author: William Birdwood Date: 12 October 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Addressmy lettersin futureHead QuartersM.E.F.*]H.M.S. Lord Nelson12 October 1915My own darling Jenny Jane.Here I am at Mudros with dear old Lord K who I wasdelighted to see again & who was I think really pleased to see me. Ihave never seen him so gentle, soft & kind in his manner - the way hetook hold of my arm & at once walked me off up the deck when hecame on board was quite unlike his old rather abrupt, shy waywith people. We seem to have at once dropped into all our oldfriendship & knowing each other, and I can see he is quite gladto have me to talk to & has naturally been most interestingtelling me about so much that has been going on in the Cabinetat home all this time. He is of course longing for the war to beover & to get away from it all - but there seems little chanceof this for a long time yet.I am glad to say he has agreed to what I asked him to do -viz to leave Genl. Monro in command of this force - as I toldhim I was quite prepared to undertake the responsibility - butfor his sake & Monro's I felt it would be an enormousmistake if Monro was removed. It would only causeunnecessary & very undesirable comment - he would be accused of making changes without reason & not knowinghis own mind which could not help creating a bad impressionin this country & throughout the service - but it would be very hardlines on Monro who had been taken from a big Army Command inFrance for this. I had as I think I told you, received awire from the Prime Minister after K. left home definitelyappointing me as Chief here, but this I suppressed, so ithas never been given out officially given out & consequentlythere is no trouble. Monro will now command the whole force,though at present things are rather difficult, as we are bothhere & K. will insist on treating me as Chief & referring to meabout everything, while Monro looks on! It is most uncomfortable& I always have to try & refer to Monro, who fortunatelyseems an exceedingly nice fellow (he is 5 & might well be10 years older than me from his appearance) & does not takethe offence some men might do. When K. has gone thingswill settle down a lot in this respect & I am sure hewill bear no malice - indeed he should be & I believeis very grateful to me for what I have done for him. Ifound as I expected that K. had been so annoyed athis proposals regarding the force here, that he had there& then moved him on to something else & put me in command. Nothing whatever is yet settled as to the future.We are having constant correspondence with the Prime Ministeron the subject & much is being discussed, but it is impossibleto say as yet what will happen & I can not go into our plans.I am not too happy about them, but the whole question ismost extraordinary & complex, for military & political considerationsare to some extent antagonistic to each other. Whateverit is, it is bound to be a very hard & difficult job, & I am soglad to know that I shall be with my men for this to see themthrough it, rather than away & out of danger as I should have beenat Head Quarters on an Island as Chief. I go back to Anzacdirectly Lord K. leaves.I have just got your letters of 14th & 19th Oct. Many thankslittle one, for ordering the parafin stove for me & I am sure &hope they will arrive all right & will be most useful, asduring the winter, the difficulty of getting ones clothes drywill be one of our greatest. That & keeping warm oncold, wet days - however we will get on all right.I think everything you have sent out has arrived allright (except the shortbread, though that may have turnedup while I was have been away from Anzac) & I expect that beforenow you will have got my letters telling you so, for I have written this more than once - and please little one,only send the one tin of fruit in future, as I honestly can'tget through nearly all you have already sent - there wasterrible tribulation on Anzac when they thought I might beleaving them altogether & I think they are all pleased I am notnow to do so. I took Lord K. ashore there yesterday - he was deadkeen on seeing the men & I think much impressed by what hesaw for he has wired home saying he had no idea we hadcaptured such an exceedingly difficult position as it is, &which has to be seen to be realised. I took him right up toa front trench within 25 yards of the Turk trenches, but inperfect safety. I was only anxious about him the wholetime we were outside the trenches, for you can never tellwhen shelling may not start & they can come anywhere:indeed I was almost most nervous about him when disembarkingfor they often fire at destroyers - however I madeour boat stand well out for the picket boat to comeout to - it was a bit rough too & I was very glad he hadto see some of our difficulties in that way. If weshould ever have to leave, Sir John Moore's retreat atCorunna would be absolute child's play to the difficultieswe will have to meet of embarking from an open beach with sea that is bound to be rough & under heavy fireof all sorts. However we will get over all that if it has tobe done.I do think it is most awfully good of that old Mrs. Stedallto be so nice to you & I will certainly try & see the son if I can. Heis probably at Mudros now as the 2nd Mtd. Division isresting there. They are under Genl. Peyton in Byng's Corpson my left when on the peninsula. You didn't tell me theresults of Judith's visit to Dr Goss - what had he to sayabout her eyes? Nothing bad I hope. You evidently had agreat run round when in town & I'm so glad you saw MrsOnslow & Mrs. Cobbe. I am waiting to write to the former untilI can get a photo I expect shortly of her boy's grave. I enclosea letter for you to see I got from Capt. Lloyd's wife, who I thinkI told you I met in Cairo - Such a very nice woman & greatfriend of dear old Gen Dighton's. Lloyd hasn't yet comeback here & I doubt if he will do so for some time yet.I hear Mrs. Sheen went out to Walter & they both left therefor England about the 7th of this month as he was invalided for3 months. Do write to them & find out where they are & ifpossible see him, for he is such a dear good fellow &I'll be very glad to get him back in due course. I hear he has had a bad time of it, as he has had neuritis addedto all his other troubles.In case you didn't see it I enclose a photo which appearedof me in the Illustrated which may be of interest as it I am withWangard's friend Admiral Thursby on the "Queen" - his flagshipfrom which I made our landing at Anzac on 25th April. He isa dear good fellow & is now Commanding a Squadron working withthe Italians in the Adriatic.I'm so glad you continue to see so much of Australians & it'salways gratifying to know they appreciate anything we can dofor them here or at home - Fancy your having actually heard theZeppelin bombs & I am indeed thankful you were not any nearerthan you were! for those bombs are terribly powerful thingsas a good many men know to their cost.Later. I am afraid that Lord K has after all decided thatI am to take over the command of all Sir Ian's late force whileGenl. Monro is to combine this & the 'troops' at Salonika. It meansI have to leave Anzac & my old Staff & troops, & can only see themoccasionally instead of daily. I'll go over & see them as oftenas I can, but with 2 other Army Corps to look after, I'll not havevery much time for them - & there is always the sea to get over to getat them - all right in the Summer, but pretty beastly now, as Iknow after 2 very horrible days yesterday & today in Destroyers!!Goodbye my own little lamb - I only just have time to catchthe mail - All my love. From your very loving old, Will.