Author: William Birdwood Date: 4 August 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling girl.We are just about to make another big advance, aboutwhich I have been busy for a long time & I do hope & think I have doneall that can be done to ensure success. It is going to be a realbig business - just as big as the day we landed and extraordinarydifficult. I have to take an extremely difficult hill held by the Turks ingreat numbers, and I feel my only chance is by attacking them at themost difficult part where they will least expect us. It is a bit coveredwith deep ravines and precipices everywhere over which we mustattack at night, so it will be a very high trial. Lots of men willlose themselves, but will have to keep pressing on & will I hopefind themselves again in the morning, and with real determinationthey will I hope succeed. If th we attempted this by day, the Turkswho are on the hills above & have "interior lines", could easilymove 20,000 men to face us anywhere, which would make successimpossible. I have been given a Division & a half of Genl. Stepford'sArmy Corps in addition to my own Army Corps, so I have a strongerforce, but the difficulty of the country really prevents me usingone's full strength to best advantage. Stepford will be co-operatingclose by with the remainder of his Corps & I do pray we may meetwith combined success. It will be a very big thing and muchdepends on it, as if we are as successful as I hope we shouldbe in a position to jeopardise the safety of the whole Turkish Armyhere, far more than we have ever done before. It is a great gamble, and it will be awful if we don't succeed as weather isso important to us here, & one can not depend on its' remainingfine very much longer. I have been landing troops here steadilyfor some nights past & I am glad to say so far in safety. The Turksgave us a tremendous shelling the afternoon before we began& then luckily stopped after dark - in the middle of the nightthey began again for a short time, but luckily just when troopswere not being landed. It is a very high trial for new troops straightfrom home to find themselves being heavily bombarded whilelanding in a strange country in the night. As it was I fear afew of them were hit by stray bullets which go over our headsall night & strike right out to sea. It is the first we haveseen of the new Kitchener army & I must say they seem quite anice lot of men but of course they & most of their officers must bevery "green" & this is more trying over the mountainous countrywhere troops have to act independently & do much on theirown initiative, than I fancy it can be in France whereall are shoved into trenches shoulder to shoulder, and fightingmust be more mechanical. I do hope these boys will rise toit & my men's example will help them a lot. I find Inow have 23 Generals under me, so we are a big swarm ofthem! Genl. Williams has I am glad to say just arrivedfrom India & I am delighted to have him with us, as heis such an excellent stinking fellow in every way, and will I know always be a great stand by in times ofstress when we are in despair about water!Just got your last letter little one of 20 July & very glad to get it too.but I am so distressed to know that you are not yet sleepingreally well. I can't think what it can be, for I am sure youought to be right now & I pray every night (Have for long doneso) that you may sleep well & happily - and I am sure you will.I was very glad to see Nancy's letter from Mansfield where sheevidently seems not only happy enough but to have lots to do, whichis quite right. She seems to have any number of friends in theneighbourhood & I quite foresee her difficulty will be ingetting through her work if they are all wanting her to go & see them.It seems rather hard lines that the people round should not askthe Australian nurses to tea etc. regularly in turn with the men, &I pray they will.You write about investments. I think I have already told you fullywhat to do about them in letters which have crossed. Briefly, Ithink what you should do is to put every penny you can saveinto the War tr loan month by month - just having enough balancein the Bank to carry you on until the next month's pay arrives -youwill always know about what you will want in this wayfrom month to month. I am taking it for granted thatyou can still go on putting money into this War loanafter 10th May, which but some of the papers rather lead oneto suppose that it would be closed then. Mr Waters will of course arrange for the National Bank of India to draw the dividends for you on everything as usual.I'm so glad your Father is allowing her to drive the car again,but I can well believe how extraordinary difficult it must befor her to manage at all, with him beside her all thattraffic & your dear old Father anxious beside her! Later.I have just been round all Cox's Bde who arrived this morning - Up tonow we have managed to get all the new troops ashore during the night& so have avoided them being shelled. Unfortunately something musthave gone wrong in the Naval arrangements last night, as by 4.a.mthere were still a good many troops to land, and as soon as even theTurks saw them they at once began shelling them - we were howeverlucky. I saw a shell burst over a houseboat full of Gurkhas justas they were leaving, but not a man was touched. By bad luck thoughI had my Naval Staff Officer here killed yesterday afternoon on the pier - avery nice keen young fellow by name Cater, who I had just had diningwith me the night before - the same shell went through the boiler of oneof the picket boats - the second I have had sunk in the last twodays. But water is my greatest anxiety & a very grave one. I only havejust enough to fill the men's water bottles and am not quite sure if I'll even havethat tonight, when I have to start our big fight. Shells have hit water ships& sunk water lighters - pumps have broken etc. etc. others keep coming to mewith most doleful faces & prophesies of dire water disaster! Howeverall we can do is to take advantage of every moment. We have to pumpwhenever we can get a water boat near the shore & to eke outwhat little we can from our fast drying up wells. So much depends on this big fight which will be startingin a few hours time. The difficulties of the country are enormous & it is just those very great difficultieswhich I am hoping may prove our best friends. If thecountry was in any way easier, it would be a mass oftrenches everywhere. As it is, on all other sides of myposition - the one side remaining is almost precipitous inplaces & covered with thick jungle & vines. I commenceby making a big attack from my right on the Turkish trenches& then swinging my left round through all this difficultcountry during the input, while I'll have a tremendousbombardmentof all my guns all round going on the whilenight. So there will be a perfect babel. I fear I mustexpect a large number of casualties & it will be a mostawful business getting them all down to the beach & off. Itwill be a long & very anxious time for me as communicationswill be terribly hard & I shall hear heavy fighting on everyside while shells will probably be flying around for hours.If we succeed as I earnestly pray we may, it should bea real good business - if I can get the Turks once well onthe run I hope we may capture a lot of their guns, campsetc & in fact do a real big strike - but it is a greatgamble - if all goes well I have every hope it maycome off - if they go wrong we would lose a largenumber of men and find ourselves in a very muchworse position than we now are. However I have told my boys I feel confident that any one of them are the equalof 10 Turks & they only have to a make up their minds tosucceed at all costs & we shall be through. It doesn't meananything very great in distance, but it does in importance -will be a much bigger fight than the day we landed.We have been much hoping for the Turks to attack us first, asthey at one time intended doing, but unfortunately theycouldn't be brought up to the necessary point.With all my love sweetheart. Ever your very loving old,Will. P.S. A terrible disaster has just happened - alighter with 400 bags of English mail hasjust been sunk when coming in for us!!Goodness knows what letters it may or maynot have had on board, so if you canremember anything important you may justhave written, better repeat it!