Author: William Birdwood Date: 19 December 1915. Location: Dardanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dardanelles Army19 December 1915My own darling girl.I've just been so glad to get your letter of 30thNov. by King's Messenger and sent on by Sir Ian - I fancyif you send these to Fitz or Major Storr direct to the WarOffice they will always send them on, without your having tobother Sir Ian - Talking of Maj. Storr, have you got theN. Zealand "tiki" I sent home to you by him?That nice Capt. Lloyd has just come back & tells me yousaw them both - You never told me about it & isn't he anice fellow? Apparently his wife sees a good deal ofQueen Alexandra to whom she was a Maid of Honour. He wastelling me that when he was at home now, dear old SirDighton was holding forth so much about me, that eventuallythe old Queen broke out with "Is there no one else in theworld but Genl. B, that you can talk of no one else" - orsomething of that sort! I still haven't got any of yourback letters which have missed, so I haven't an ideayet if you have yet got my replies to all the questionsyou wanted- I do hope so?What does Chris mean in his letter by saying "Nannywill be a load off your mind"? Has she left youor what has happened? You have never mentioned anything about her - but I see you talk of a Madamoiselle with Judith. Have you taken her on regularly in Nanny'splace? I do feel so sorry for the latter as it seems so hardto know what to do for her or with her. What is Mabel doing?Has she come back to your Father?N The two plum cakes have arrived all right & have been verywelcome in the mess where we of course share everything & allyour tinned fruit etc are sent there. I see you mention milktoo - have you sent any? For none has ever arrived here - butin any case little one, (if you haven't already done so) havethese things stopped now as we do not want them here.Things can be got at the canteen, so do not order anythingfrom Fortnum & Mason - or if you have ordered anything, countermandit - Where I shall be 10 days hence I have no idea, butwhen & if I can only complete this terrible evacuation, successfully, I shall not be at all surprised if I am notordered to take my whole Army down to Egypt where we maycome in for some big fighting a short time hence.Here I have a nice- little wooden hut to sleep inwhich was built for Sir Ian. I am so glad Genl. Monrodid not decide to come here, but he has remained atMudros. Today I have been over at Suvla seeing Genl.Byng & seeing to things there for the last time -Tonight I spend on a Destroyer off the coastwatching to see if anything happens during the penultimate night of our departure. Tomorrow I go toAnzac for a final look round of the position & trenches ofwhich I have been so proud & for which I have so muchlived during all these last months. I really feel likeabandoning a child in leaving there, & it makes me nearlycry! You can't believe what really wonderful work hasbeen put into that place - almost an underground cityin which my men could hold out against anything &defy the world! But the same does not apply everywhere &in Suvla (where the ground is very different) could not holdout against the heavy Austrian & German Artillery whichwe have every reason to suppose will shortly be broughtagainst it, then the Germans could bring guns intothe rear of Anzac & cut us off from the sea. Howeverit is all very sad & it seems such irony that I amto be the man to carry it out. After the day at AnzacI shall be spending the night on the cruiser "Chatham" - forthat is going to be the real time of anxiety - Wemay have an awful time of it - as bad as any armyhas ever had, for we shall be carrying out one of themost difficult operations in warfare - Sir John Mooreat Corunna over again, but a far bigger jobthan he ever had to tackle - But I am confident that things will go well - Providence has helped us sofar & I have every trust that we shall be helped to the end.Tonight is calm - If it will remain so till Monday morningwe shall all be off & any anxieties over - A big blowbetween now & then, & I shudder to contemplate the possibilities.We have got to work hard too those two nights to get off20,000 men each night as we must do - remember no harbouror proper piers - just the little things we have been ableto rig up ourselves, alongside which big ships can notof course go anywhere near. When it is all over, I feelI shall have a momentary collapse - but for not more than5 minutes as there will still be lots more to be done.I will still have a Corps at Helles, & I may have tostop & look after it, but I rather think I'll haveto get off at once to Egypt & organize the defence there.I'm so glad Lady Robinson is so nice to you, littleone, as she seems such a very nice woman. I didn'tknow they were not Australians & I too wonder howhe became A.G. for Queensland. I expect he hasbeen a big contractor who has dealt largelywith the Colony (possibly in xxxxx meat) & theyhave taken him on look after their interests. As a contractor he has probably made piles.I wonder what happens to the Reids? To my great regrethe ceases to be H.C. for Australia in January. I wrote to theGovernor General asking if he couldn't be kept on till theend of the war, but they wouldn't have it & he has to go.All these things are very political in Australia & I fancythe present Premier wanted the billet & some one she wantedto be Premier, so Sir George had to move on, on finishinghis extended time - He is not a rich man & I supposemay have to return to Australia to the Bar, but he isgetting old now & one feels sorry for him having to doso - He offered to stay on with out pay if they wouldkeep him - at present I think he gets 5000 a year.Tell Mrs. Moncrieff or Lady H. when you next see them thatI still have their nephew young McGrigor as A.D.C in placeof de Crespigny who has been sick now in Egypt for over2 months. I took McGrigor over from Sir Ian. I find himsuch a very nice young fellow, who looks after me socapitally & runs our mess for us splendidly. He wasout in Calcutta in the Muir's firm when this brokeout, but went home & then came out here in theGloucester Yeomanry. I fear I shan't be able tokeep him after de Crespigny rejoins but I'll be very sorry to lose him.I was very glad to see your Australian card, which isI think excellent - I can't say though that I think wellymuch of my signature on it!! I always write with abroad pen & never put a little wiggling line undermy name, but a good bold stroke!! I enclose oneI have just scribbled off! Not that you are likely towant it again - I'm so glad too you have fixed upsomething for the N.Z's - it would never have done toleave them out, but 30 seems an enormous sum to pay forsuch a thing, doesn't it? The original card is howevertoo Australian to do for both, though if you'd only thoughtof it in time, it would have been ever so much nicerin every way to have had the one card for both. Itwould have wanted the N.Z. fern leaves on theoutside cover - the first 3 messages are allright as they stand - you'd have had to get onefrom the N.Z Defence Minister to correspond toPearce's message & you'd have had to get Sir Ian to include N.Z's in his message - and to havehad a second picture included - or N.Z shownas well as Australia with a girl on each! Howeverit is too late for that & I hope Mrs. Mackenzie will havebeen able to fix up something for you all right.What a little monkey Judith must be getting & howI'd just love to see you & her again - but I don't see when it isgoing to be - this is going to drag on for a long time yet &we have to go on with it whatever happens until theGermans are absolutely beat - it is the only thing to do & Itrust I may keep fit. I'm extraordinary so keen to see itthrough to the end. Can't Chris get on a bit with his Frenchwith Madamoiselle during the holidays? I do wish hecould do a bit every day, for I saw his last report was verypoor as regards French & it is so important - Judith reallyshould get a decent start at her age & I hope may learnto talk well. I'm so sorry poor Kath still has indy, asI thought she had quite got over it. Robin is I suppose stillat Bushire - I wrote him a long letter from Egypt soonafter Nancy left them but have never had a line from him& only heard he was in Persia quite by chance. I daresayhe thinks I should have brought him out on my staff & I shouldmuch have liked to do so, but it wasn't possible.I'm glad you have seen something of Mrs. Cliff as though I know What you mean about her, yet, I think she is really a nicewoman & I like him very much. Cliff told me he had boughtthat house for her just before he came out here - lucky tobe able to do it, but I don't know that it is a thing I'd havedone myself at such a time! Did I tell you I now haveCol McMunn on my staff as Adjt & Quartermaster General and verywell he does too, for he is certainly very able & has tact - he isa very nice fellow too. Goodbye my own little wife & all my love to you Ever your very loving old, Will