Author: William Birdwood Date: 1 January 1916 Location: Dardanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dardanelles Army1 January 1916. My own darling Janey Jane.Here we are at the beginning of another year. Where it willlead us? To peace after victory? I am a little doubtful of ourgetting through it so soon - that we are going to win I havent the veryleast doubt, but I'm not at all sure if we will do so in the year. Youwill remember I always said Oct. 16, as the end, but Im doubtfulif we shant have to go on for yet another year. However we may doit all right earlier. I am thinking of you all so much now& wondering what you are all doing - for again our mails have alldisappeared. I have nothing from you since 30th Nov, & thosemissing mails have never arrived. I wonder if they will ever doso. I am again having a very anxious & physically trying timeof it with all this sea journeyings. I now have to carry out theevacuation of the Army Corps at Helles, & shall be really relievedonce that is safely through. I can hardly hope for the completesuccess I had with Anzac & Suvla, as the Turks are very muchon the look out & will try to get at us all they can - butprovided the weather is again kind to us & I have everyfaith in Providence - I am confident of doing it all right.Genl. Monro has now gone off to Egypt, so I am left alone hereto see this through, & when it is over I fancy I will go down toEgypt myself & reorganise my Army again, to meet the bigGerman-Turkish threatened invasion of Egypt. The Germans now have their aeroplanes flying over our trenches at Helles every day & night, while they keep shelling thebeaches regularly throughout the 24 hours, so one has to runthe gauntlet in landing &getting away every day, whilethe xx embarking of all of kit, guns &animals is made amost difficult business. Only 2 nights a go a note inGerman was thrown into one of our trenches. "Your bully beefis not bad, but ours is better (referring evidently to some we hadleft & they had got from Anzac). When are you all leaving? Weshall meet again on the Suez Canal"!! and I daresay we will.My last few days have been rather strenuous. Two of them Ihave had to go down to Mudros & back - 60 miles each way - in adestroyer, & the other 2 I've been over to Helles. The first day toMudros was nearly a bad one. I had wanted the destroyer to beready to take me off at 7 as had to be there early. They nevergot my signal, so I got on board & found them all practicallyasleep - a thing the Navy hate! Then to make up for lost timeonce they got steam up & we were off, we had to go 26 knotsagainst a head wind. On deck I was all right thoughrather wet, but foolishly allowed myself to be tempted downinto the ward room for breakfast! That was too much forme, as the whole place was simply jumping over itself!You could hardly stagger across it by holding on toeverything & nothing would remain on the table! SoI soon came on deck again &lay down in thechart room, when I was all right. Then coming back from Mudros last night we had a horridtime of it. We have to go without lights for fear of submarines,so it's never too easy to find one's way in here through theanti-torpedo nets. As we were getting near, the wretchedFrench battleship "Souffran" who had been out shellingsome Turkish guns all day, came along & rammed & sankone of our horse ships, which made me extremely angry asshe was just going over to Helles to evacuate horses we wanted toget away badly. Then she used her searchlights to pick upthe crew etc, but these completely put our Captain out of hisbearings, as we thought they came from a ship in harbour, &nearly went on the rocks accordingly! After wandering aboutfor a bit, we finally had to anchor till we could find outwhere we were, & then started again on our wanderings toget in - rolling of course like the devil, all this time. HoweverI'm thankful to say we eventually got in all right at 9.30instead of 7 as we expected. Today again it has not been too pleasant - the worst part being the getting on board. Therewere real big seas getting in & I had to go off in a verylight motor boat which was just chucked about allover the place & real active gymnastics were requiredto get out of her onto the destroyer - however having managedthat, I climbed up on the bridge & was all right,though we had the same difficulties in getting on& off at Helles & again on returning here - & even now as I sit writing, I feel as if the whole table wasrising & falling about me.I had quite an interesting day of it with the French whosetroops I am relieving today, so as not to have any muddlewith the two lots of troops on finally leaving, though Iam keeping their Artillery, or some of it to the last, but under our Officers orders. I am glad to say I have been ableto arrange all this most amicably with the little FrenchGeneral Brulard, who has become a great friend of mine &I quite enjoy an occasional dejeuner with him, though itmeans eating &drinking much too much. Today I wentover to present a Military Cross & some D.P. Medals to someFrench men, & was quite pleased with the small speech I made"Mon Comrad, je suis trs heureux de remettre de la part de mon Roi cette medaille - et je vous fait mesfelicitations, et c'est un grand honeur pour moi deserai le main d'un brave soldat Francais come vous."I was told this was quite all right & was complimentedon my accent!! Not by the French who would have doneso out of politeness, but by the Interpreter! It is about theonly time I have broken out in French as in conversation. I refuse to give myself away at all.Then after dejeuner, little Brulard made me a nicespeech saying he had just received a telegram from the President of the Republic saying he had approved ofmy appointment as a Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour.Rather nice, I think. Fortunately perhaps the decoration hadnot arrived, so I was not kissed as I suppose wouldotherwise have been the case! With the French this is lookedupon as a tremendous thing & very high honour, & I fancy would beof use if we were in France at any time - & if I could talk the language! It corresponds to our K.P.B. Rather a nice silver star, with a beautiful head of "The Republic" in the centre -and a Cross xxx which one wears round the neck with ared ribbon. I shall have so many of these things soon I'llnot know what to do with them, eh?I tell ^you what I wish you would do. At lunch Brulardbroke his little amber cigarette holder. Will you buy mea nice one & send it out for me to give him. I'm sure hewould appreciate it very much. Q Quite a plain one ofamber - On the box case I'd like stamped "From W.R.B.to J.B" - or if it can be got on "A mon ami leGeneral Brulard. WR Birdwood."The Turks began shelling a bit just as we were leaving andone big shell happened by the worst of luck to plumpright on to our unfortunate native transport driver who wassquatting close by & literally blew him into pieces. Itlooked at first as if it had just landed into aheap of old kit, & it wasn't till the bits came down, we saw it was an unfortunate man, while a poor Tommy had hishead taken clean off.Do send this letter, or such as you like of it to your old Fatheras I have no time to write & this will give him all my newswhich I know he likes hearing - also do find out if he ever gotthe letter I wrote him telling him I would had spoken to Fitzgerald& Storr about Percy, & that they had promised to try & get him somefurther employment - my letter may have been in the captured mailbut I don't think it was. Has Percy yet got anything? I do hopehe has. Janey, old Mrs Markes wrote me the other day to say their secondson was out here as a Pte in the Devon Yeomanry - jolly good of himI think to have come as such. I'd have looked him up, but thatI only got her letter a few days after they had gone to Egypt whereI may of may not see him.I have been so very sorry just to see the death of young Seton Rundin Townshend's fight near Baghdad. I fear Aleck & Daisy will be mostfrightfully cut up about it, as he was the one member of the generationcoming on of the family to whom they looked, & of whom theythought so much- he was like a son to them &I know they will feelthis terribly - do write to them about it.Goodbye my little one. I am thinking of you all so muchtoday & every day. I do hope you will have been spending ahappy New Year's day - sleeping well at nights - & I trustthat the coming year may bring you & all of us muchhappiness - and peace after victory.All my love to you. Ever your very loving old,Will.