Author: William Birdwood Date: 20 June 1915. Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling girl,Very glad indeed to get your letter of 1st & 3rd & toknow you had at last got my first letters from here - I dohope you have really got them all as I expect you have - thepost office may purposely have held them all up for a week or sobefore delivering them. I wonder how on earth the Daily Mirrorcan have got hold of that yarn about me having been killed -I have just been shown the photo they published & along sideof it is one of Genl. Cunliffe-Owen who is my artillery staffofficer. As a matter of fact. I left him on board ship to arrangeabout their gun fire for this first week of our landing & he hasnever been touched in any way, though they report him as"killed while leading the Australian troops to the attack"!!It just shows how they can get hold of things. He is a verynice fellow & excellent R.A. officer. He has I believe a verynice American wife (with I fancy, money) and he is writing totell her to write to you to see if you can arrange to meetwhen we are next in town - she I fancy lives somewheredown Aldershot way & motors up. She apparently at oncewrote a contradiction to the Morning Post on her own. Sheis asking me if it is possible to prosecute the Mirror. I have told him much better to leave it alone, thatI doubt if it is a libel - I have just been shownthough the photo of myself & I'm not at all sure that isn't a libel!! For I am not nearly so baldas they make me, & such little hair as they give meseems to be lank & parted in the middle, which certainlydoes not meet my description. As a matter of fact now Ihave had all my hair off with horse clippers which is the onlything to do for cleanliness in these parts. Did the reportergive any excuse at all as to how they published theirstatement & the photos Owen says he is sure they must haveenlarged from that large group copies of which I sent you fromCairo.We haven't been doing much since I last wrote, but haveour daily "hate" doses - Going out to some of my trenchesyesterday a Turkish gun seemed to be deliberatelyfollowing us, though of course it wasn't, and one roundafter another came plumeting into the road a minuteor two after I had passed that particular spot. I reallythink, we have quite frightened the Turks round us &have established a complete moral superiority over them -partly by the numbers of them we have killed & now theynever dare show a head over their trenches anywhereor they are at once shot - & partly in the excellent trencheswe have made. Consequently they devote theirattention in attacking on the force further southwhich is a great nuisance. As I am hoping forthem to come along and have another go at them when I'd hope to kill another 4000 of themwhich would probably lead to their complete route. I don't think the other Divisions have anything like thegood trenches I have, nor have they made up "periscoperifles" as we have which enable my men to sit downcomfortably behind the parapet & shoot with their rifles18" above their heads, so that all the Turks can seeis the muzzle of a rifle - and they don't like it a bit!In some of the shelling here a few days ago, one cameright into John McConaghy's "dug out"- so it was just aswell I had sent him to Alexandria a few days before to seeto one or two things or it might have found him at home! I have sent dear old Lotbinire (who is his Brig-Genl)there too for a few days to try & get me some water boatsor we will be having a water famine here. My dug out hasbeen reinforced since a shell landed at the entrance & literallywithin six inches of me when I was having my hair clipped -a real astonisher for the clipper!! Lucky he hadn't scissors inhis hand or he might have had a ear off!! Onslow is verywell & when bathing the other day, Skeen heard an Australiansay "That's a fine young fellow. I wonder what is jobhere is"- Not quite the same as another Staff Officerwho was accosted by a man with "Hullo-Sonny, youlook about fit to be killed you do - get a doubleratis ration of biscuit I expect" - You canexpect no respect of person when naked! We can't have any mess here & all feed together inlittle batches of twos. I always hare feed by myselfexcept dinner, for which each of the staff come to mein turns so I see a good deal of them all. Carruthersis looking very old.You certainly seem to have been doing lots in the AustraliaCommittee meeting line & I am sure they will allappreciate this. Mrs Osbourne seems very kind, though I didnot know she was looking out for work for Nancy - an excellentthing, if she can make herself quite useful.Judith must have loved Madame Tussauds, if she wasn'tfrightened?The poor Michaels!. I feel so sorry for them as I am surethey must both be most disappointed people, while she isa dear kind hearted person. I haven't yet seen Thehonours gazette, but fear he will not have gotanything, though I much hope Bob has - he in sothoroughly deserves it.Fancy old Lady Reid being golden haired & painted!Seeing him makes one quite surprised, as he hasremained so simple & does not I think pretend tobe anything but what he is - just a man of thepeople - & such a kindly hearted one - Idaresay though that she is very nice & I hope golden golden hearted as well as golden hearted-I am sure he is.Have you seen Mrs Lobo or Mrs Carruthers at all?I'm glad you have seen Mrs Marlow & Mrs Armstrongseems quite forthcoming. I think she is nice. Iwonder who Lady Robinson's husband is - Is he anAustralian? What a let down Sir Dighton is. It wasjust like him to find out at once from the War Officethen to let you know. I shouldn't be surprised if he hadn'talso let the Daily Mirror know too!I wonder if anything like a big air raid has been madeon London. We have heard boqg vague rumours ofsuch but I don't believe them yet. I can't thinkhow it is that fleets of very much faster movingaeroplanes can not at once pounce on & destroy theslow lumbering zepolins - You would think it mustbe a case of a submarine being able to get at abattleship, with the advantage that the aeroplanecan always keep the air ship in sight.I don't know that I remember that Lady EdithCharles, but I used to know her brotherwell. Such a very nice fellow he is too. He was then Ulick Browne in the 12thBengal Cavalry - afterwards became Lord U.B.7th Marquis of Sligo _ I last saw himwhen he came out, to India one winter afterhe had left the B.C.Goodbye my own little lamb and allmy love to you.Ever your very loving old,Will. Have you seen anything of Dorothy & how is she -You mention lunching with her - But I am not sureif you mean Halhed's D. or D.R.? Halhedtells me his D. has got over her operationall right. I wonder where she is living?