Author: William Birdwood Date: 23 October 1915. Location: Kephalos Imbros Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: H.M.S. Cornwallis.Kephalos. Imbros.23 Oct 15.My own darling Jenny Jane.I am still here at head quarters in theproud position of Commander-in-Chief for a few dayslonger until Sir C. Monro arrives. That best of fellows, theAdmiral here - de Robeck - seized me when I arrived &seeing I wasn't quite fit, insisted on my going at once onto a ship & here have I been very comfortable on thisbattleship - such a nice fellow in a Capt. Davidson incommand, who has looked after me as I tell him SirIan described the fleet - as the Father & Mother of the Army.Just these few days has made a most wonderful differenceto me & I am now absolutely right & myself again. Myservant was very funny the first night I went on board& he saw nice clean sheets on my bed "This will bea nice change tonight, Sir - it'll seem quite strange to have nice sheets again". I must say it does seemextraordinary nice having everything clean again - especiallyclean food & a real lovely warm bath. Davidson has been mostawfully good in having custard puddings etc for me & Inow really am as fit as ever & am going permanently onshore tomorrow. The last few days I have been there duringthe day to deal with work, as I find I have a gooddeal to do. As C-in-C I have great power in ways & cangive commissions - temporary or permanent - on my own - acertain number of D.S.O's & Military Crosses quite on my own &any D.C. Medals - but of course only to men in this force.Also I am sorry to say I have to deal with & confirm manyCourts martial.The Admiral has been off to Mudros, but comes back today.I've known nothing of the political situation in the Balkanswhich looks about as bad as it could be, but I supposeMonro will come out with full instructions from home. I have had to wire home a full account to theCabinet of my own views on the situation, which was notat all an easy thing to do when I am only in command forsuch a very brief period.I have a very nice fellow in a Genl. Ellison acting as my ChiefGeneral Staff in place of Braithwaite who went home with SirIan, Genl. Monro will bring his own man, who will I expect bea Genl. Kiggell who was with Sir Redvers & Lord K in S. Africa& is a first class & very nice fellow. Genl. Byng has of coursebeen most awfully nice in serving under me as he is nowdoing, for he is of course much senior - While just fancy - Ihave just had a letter from poor old Sir James Willcocks askingif I will have him out to come & serve under me too!!He said he absolutely could not continue to serve any longerunder Haig who bullied him so, that he finally had todecide to chuck it. I am so very sorry indeed for himas I know how much he will have felt it, & there isno doubt but that he is a good man. He was full of enthusiasm for the way in which Lord K. had received him& for all his kindness, & was full of hope of getting anothercommand in due course, but it is rather hard to see what hecan get - unless he were to go to East Africa - and of coursehe couldn't well come & serve in my Army Corps. I do thinkthough that he might well have come here when Sir Ianwent & in pl his place, for I quite think he would havebeen the very best man for it - he has so much experience -Poor Sir Ian had to leave here the very day a new horse hadbeen got ready for him & he was to have changed his HeadQuarters from one to the other side of the Island. My servant describedit as "a huge place" & felt sure I'd feel lost in it! As amatter of fact it is only 2 wooden rooms, but very nicelysituated & will be comfortable enough. It is strange that I shallbe occupying it as the first C-in-C - and proud I amto be doing so. I shall be quite happy though to return tomy humble dugout at Anzac. It's horribly cold herejust at present & I don't at all relish leaving "Cornwallis"permanently for the shore! For some extraordinary reasonthey have made no fireplace in the Chiefs quarters, the intention being to warm it by a stove which hasn'tyet arrived! I daresay Genl. Monro will have one, & I hearsome are expected any day.One of the midshipmen on board "Cornwallis", is I find ason of Col. Malleson's & he got a V.C. at the landing atCape Helles on 25th April. Such a fine looking boy heis & he has struck me as a fine sailor too, in the wayhe has handled his piquet boat two or three times whenhe has landed me or taken me aboard in this horriblerough weather we have been having here lately - it's beenblowing a storm day after day, & it's often doubtful ifa boat can be got alongside the ship at all or not.I haven't liked to ask the boy about his Mother - he told mehe hadn't seen his Father for several years - and I noticedthat one of the picture days papers the other day publisheda photo of the present Mrs M - as his Mother!! Do you remember that comical fellow who used often to sendme newspaper cuttings - he was a telegraphist with on Lord K'sstaff in Pretoria. He sent me a cutting of that picture of meswimming which he had marked "From photo taken by Mrs Pankhurst"I have just heard that Genl. Monro arrives 27th or 28th whenI'll go back to Anzac.I am very sorry to see that poor little Davidson-Houston of the58th is missing in France, which I fear must meanalmost to a certainty that he is dead - and CaptainWhitehead of 56th - do you remember what a realreckless fellow he was - just the man to be killed inhis first charge, for nothing but bullets or bayonets wouldever have stopped him. Another death I am so sorryabout is poor old Sir a. [[Ken?]]. He was such a dearsingle minded & simple old fellow & I fear it willmust leave her very lonely. I suppose she willleave India now & go home for good, but with house property as they have out there it must takesome settling up. I fancy old Sir James Walkerwill have to go out again to help look after the banka bit.I am absolutely all right again now little one, sodon't you think I in not - and after a week'sbeastly weather I'm glad to say it has now clearedup & we are having a lovely day.Tomorrow I am going all round the French position& trenches - as C -in C for the time being they comeunder me, & I may just as well see somethingof them. When you go there however, I hear theimportant thing in their eyes is the djeunerwhich is most elaborate, & as a sort of secondaryidea you see their trenches! A great partof their troops here are Africans & I don't fancyvery much good. To show that I have beena C -in C even if only for a short time, I enclose a copy of my first order on takingover!Goodbye my own little lamb - All my loveto you alwaysEver your very loving oldWill