Author: William Birdwood Date: 15 June 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: We have been having for us a comparatively quiet time of it lately as I fancy the Turks have come to the conclusion it is rather expensive work attacking us. They have lost so much on every occasion - more than I at first thought. From letters we have found on dead Turks we find that time after time there are entries of their losses, and on one occasion when I attacked some of their trenches & had a good fight but of which I didn't think very much, they acknowledged to have had 600 killed & 2000 wounded. We cannot advance until a general movement can be made & in the mean time the Turks have made tremendous entrenchments all round my position & unless I can suceed in a plan I have made I shall have the very greatest difficulty & suffer heavy losses when we have to advance. In the mean time I am doing all I can to make themwaste their ammunition & resort to one ruseafter another - Last night I should thinkthey must have got through about 100,000 roundsas we managed to scare them properly &think they were going to be attacked in forcetonight. I really do mean to Take one of theirTrenches. I hope they will then think it is onlya cry of wolf & not be fully ready. TheTurks we find are full of respect for mymen as we have just seen in one of theirreports that they look upon them as fiercerfighters than the Bulgarians. The Germanshad told the poor Turks that the Australianswere savages, that they never gave quarterCutting the throats of all prisoners & that someof them were even cannibals! This was ofcourse to prevent desertion as I fancy alot of these men would really give anything tocome in if they dared do so. I cant thinktheir hearts are in it & it is only the Germaninfluence & Enver Pasha who makes themstick to it. The big Russian reverse in Saliciais a real bad business as far as we areconcerned for we had looked to them toco-operate near Constantinople & by havinga good force there to prevent the Turks sendingmore troops here. As it is I much fear theywill not have men to send there for a long time & more Turks can then flow downhere - unless of course Greece, Bulgaria &Romania or any of them should come downreally strong on one side. Greece I fancywill do so very soon & will then possiblybe followed by one of the others. We stillget a lot of casualties I am sorry to saydaily but not nearly so many as we hadthe first fortnight here. The annoying partis that so many of those now killed orwounded are from stray shots which is howpoor Genl Bridges was killed which is soannoying.I made an attack on some of the enemystrenches last night & was successful upto a certain exten in that we got right in& turned the Turks out - but they camealong in large numbers with an enormousnumber of very large bombs which they hurledinto the trench from all sides as they had aregular ramification of trenches around theirfiring trench. My fellows stuck this tilldawn & then I am sorry to say decided theycould do so no longer & came away whichannoyed me very much as I had hoped to make this a pivot from which toseize a lot more trenches further on. Howeverwe killed a good many of them & captured24 prisoners which all counts & we didntlose much ourselves. Will.