Author: William Birdwood Location: Anzac Cove Gallipoli, Turkey.Date: 15 May 1915. Nationality: Australian. Text: My own darling girl.Very little to tell you from here as we lead a curiouslymonotonous life with little variation but the amount of shootinggoing on. I was so disappointed when the last mail came in toget a letter in your writing & to find it only contained a wretchedCompany's notice!! I am sure you will have written a letter atthe same time & that it will have miscarried as so many seemto do - though I hope they generally turn up later on. I have been unableto think of any more from here as I am still so weak in numbers.This is most annoying & indeed serious for while I have had tostand on the defensive the Turks - there are about 20,000 of them,have made entrenchments all round me & I can now only advanceby means of a really big fight & breaking through an entrenchedposition is always a most difficult job. They still do apowerful lot of shooting - in fact since we landed on 25th I donot think there has been a single half hour during which theyhave not fired - at times it dies down to a few shots & thenbreaks at out into a regular roar which goes on for hours& which as you can imagine is rather trying to one's nervesas you never know you wont get a sudden message to say theyhave broken through the line somewhere and are coming onme in force. A good deal of their firing though is verywild & goes right out to sea - in fact I find my boys attimes try to draw them, by firing a few rounds from a maxim and then start cheering! The Turks at once think we meanto attack & will very often start away firing 1000's of rounds intothe air, which shows they are not the best of troops. I will saymy boys started doing the same thing at first, but I thinkI have now stopped them. I am sorry to say I still get dailycasualties & most of them from not near the trenches by droppingshots & shrapnel. They have now got some guns which enfilademy beach & cause great trouble. I have all the supplies arrangedin a series of traverses all along the beach so that whenevershrapnel starts the men can always run in behind shelter, soit should only be those who are unlucky enough to be caught by thefirst round who should come to harm, but so many do & I losta very good young Engineer Officer yesterday. The shelling only comeson in bursts of about half an hour to an hour. Betweenwhiles the men off duty manage to get bathes & it is mostcomical to see the shelling start again when there are 100men in the water!! It has begun once or twice when I havebeen having my own bath, so one doesn't go far out & canget back to cover quickly. Since I have been writing thisI have been watching - my "dugout" is only 10 yards from thewater - men bathing & shrapnel suddenly starting - it makes onelaugh to see 100 naked men tearing out of the water & rushingto the nearest shelter they can find - very often leaving allthey possess on the beach!We hope we are disheartening these Turks & I feel surea great many of them would much like to chuck it if only they could, but the Germans wont let them. Theymust be an extraordinary callous lot for Onslowmanaged to shoot a couple of them a day or two ago& almost immediately after, their bodies were just thrownout over the parapet of their trench to lie there ayard off. The stench in some of our trenches is inplaces too awful & at times I have really been very nearabsolutely sick - dead Turks are lying about all overthe place in numbers & in places I fear some of our ownmen too, whom we can not get near to bry bury. We alwaystry when we can & some times succeed at night, but Ihave to tell them it isn't worth while getting a liveman killed to bury a dead one, & the Turks always seemto pot our fellows when they go out on such work. Thereis certainly one comforting thing, my P.M.O. tells me thatthough the smell is very unpleasant you get accustomed toit & it is not unhealthy! I'm afraid I could never getaccustomed to it! I hear the French "75's" peeling awaydown in the South: they are extraordinary in that way & seemto love firing away their Artillery for no real reason, butjust to cover their front - fortunately they have lots ofammunition which is more than I have - but eventhen it seems to me all wrong that they should go onfiring away as they do. It is just that they get jumpy and are afraid without reason of being attacked &keep shouting for help when it isn't wanted. Poor Genl.d'Amade has had to be recalled. I fancy he is useless& I hear a younger & better man replaces him. I do wonderhow you are now sleeping little one? I do hope you are allright & have not got into bad nights again? With all the quietat Thurlby you should be all right. I used to sleep badly when wefirst landed but am all right now, & managed to get my sleepwhile the Turks fire away harmlessly into the air to keep theircourage up! The rascals shot a hole through my periscope thismorning - they don't like us using them a bit, while it is a greatcomfort to sit down quite safely behind the parapet withyour periscope up & see well all round the Country. OldLotbinire has made so many now that you see them allalong our trenches - most annoying for the Turks.I send you a copy of my official report on our landing whichyou may care to see & keep - also a little map showing wherewe are and a sketch of some of my trenches, from which youwill see in what difficult country I am. Give all mynews to your old Father, who I am sure would love to behere & see all this fighting. Goodbye my own little sweetheartall my love to you & the children. Ever your very loving old, Will