Author: William Birdwood Date: 12 November 1915. Location: Dardanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Dardanelles Army12 November 1915.My own darling Jenny Jane -At last two letters from you. the ones you sent by Sir Ianby Kings Messenger and dated 22nd & 25th November. I have hadnothing from you since the one dated 31st. October between them. Sogoodness knows how many of them may not have gone wrong & beenlost. You mention two having at least got one from me, written justbefore I was to meet Lord K - but you do not say if you havegot my others answering all the questions you wanted to knowabout - Chris's 500 - your investments - the Simla BankPass book - the 52 I asked you about being credited to ouraccount at home etc. (has this been done?]. Do please tell me if youhave ever got my letters telling you all about these things - forI have now written about most of them, at least 3 times Ithink! I haven't yet got the Diary for 1916- "Letts. No. 35Indian & Colonial Rough Diary" - Has it been sent yet, for I ammuch hoping to get it during the next fortnight.I am having a horribly anxious time of it [[?]] I have nowish ever to go through again. It does seem wrong that Iwho am the one person to have been opposed to the presentpolicy am selected as the man to carry it out, for Ijust hate it- and it has such possibilities of terribledisaster and none of glory or victory! However, that is neitherhere or there- I am given the job & I am going to see itthrough as well as I possibly can & I hope I have made all the arrangements & taken all the precautions I can. Indeed I amconfident of doing it successfully as far as is humanly possible,but I have the worst, most fickle & most relentless enemy tocontend with-viz- hot weather. We are entirely dependent on it. Itfavoured us landing & I pray God it may do so again now. Afterthat fearful storm & blizzard one realises what the weather can belike here, and a continuous storm for 3 or 4 days would put usin most fearful jeopardy. All this last week it has been all right ofhave been getting away men, guns, ammunition & stores as fast as Ican & I'd have checked almost everything & got away all the menhad this been possible, but they require an enormous amount oflighters & barges which have to be collected from all over the placethose are not all ready yet - just a few more days fine weather &I am all right. And then I have another enemy in the moon!I'd hurry on now like anything to avoid it when almost fullbut I can't. Then I'd like to put it off till the full moon was again gone,but I simply daren't trust the weather holding out & musttake advantage of every fine moment I can - You see what a fearfulgamble it is, and on top of all this. I am quite dependent on theprovision by the Navy of all the necessary small craft, which mayget scattered or broken up by storms. But I can not helpfeeling confident that all will go well. What will happen inthe future I haven't an idea - nor can I say where I will bea fortnight hence! or what troops I will have with me.I have just been spending a day with the French General here,a very nice little fellow called Bruelard. It is such a nuisancenot being able to talk French as of course I have to make allsorts of arrangements with me. He & his troops are nowdirectly under me & we are the best of friends. Theyto everything so very differently to me, and strike us as very casual in many ways. a lot of their arrangementsthough are much better than ours & they certainly know how tofeed themselves excellently! They give me a most wonderful dejeneurat Sed-el Bahr Fort whenever I go over there to see them!A few days before I got your letters I had one from Capt. Pollentelling me you had been lunching there. Both he & Col. Wigramsaid very nice things about your youthful looks which I mustkeep as a swop!! I'm so glad too that you met Sir Ian there-as he is a dear & I'm so very sorry for him. I can't look upon him as a very big man, as he is really shallow by nature-artistic if you like it too, but I don't know that he couldever concentrate himself very deeply in thinking things out. Imay be wrong and I certainly like him very much. I am glad tosay he tells me he has put on a stone in weight since he hasbeen at home, & he can well afford to put another. I don't thinkhe was ever too fit all the time out here. He too said suchnice things about you.Very glad my message for the Christmas cards was all right, &what you tell me about the design of the card soundscapital, &I'm so glad you had arranged everything equallyfor the New Zealanders. But I don't know how you aregoing to get cards to all the men at home, for there seems tobe several thousands there.I am so sorry to hear you are & sleeping so badly againlittle one after all your rushing about in town - not thatI have heard much of that as I expect you told meabout it in your letters which have not turned up.one mail at all events I am nearly sure must have beensunk by a submarine. I do hope a quiet time again at Thurlby will put you all right, though I suppose thehouse will be very full again for Christmas.Peel House must be a wonderful place for the men & I had not heardof it before. I must say people have been most extraordinary goodin the way they have provided such places.I'm so glad you were able to see Genl. Walker, but you don'tsay how he was! I have heard nothing of him since he gothome, so have no idea if he is likely to be right soon & ableto come out & rejoin us again or not. What did he sayabout it?I will try & make sure that Peacock gets his letter But theDivision is just on the move with all this change before usthat I shan't be able to make sure of anything getting toanyone for just a short time.I see Lady Chesterfield tried with exactly what I had [[?]] [[early]]done about your serving on her committee - & that your namewas what they really wanted!. Only very few are wantedto run such things - large committees do nothing - oneworking member generally does everything, but I suppose thatat the present time while I am with the Australiansyour name isused useful in such a thing. I can'timagine that Mrs Cliff is of any great value in thecommittee working line! Does she ever talk of her step mother,my A.D.C's mother! I expect not - my fellow is a realgood man in his way that I feel absolutely certainhe would die for me at any moment & risk anythingin the way, of certain death for me - but he is so uneducated as not to be of any f real value - & his accentis the worst & commonest I have heard!You can tell Lady Chesterfield that I always do all I possiblycan for the Y.M.C.A., as both here & in Egypt, I have foundthem doing so much real good work for the men and they aredeserving of every consideration & help. I often wonder how theymanage things so well as they do.Coming to think about it I am not at all sure that the letterI wrote you about as having been captured by the Austrian sub-marine off Messina was dated from "Lord Nelson" - I rather thinkI must have posted that one at Mudros in the previous week. Ifso the one you will not have got was sent from here on myreturn from Mudros about 27th November.Leaving my Anzac position & trenches, is for me almost like leavinga child & I was quite heart broken when going round them againa few days ago to see all they had been doing & which theyshowedme with so much pride to meet my wishes in theway of making themselves impenetrable against heavy shell fire.There they had beautiful [[?]] underground chambers dug 20ftunder the earth, with several shafts leading down to eachso that the air was quite fine, with several entrances youcouldn't be buried in the event of a large shell blowingup one in there. They had no idea that they were not tostick to them & I am sure they will feel it terribly whenthey find they have to leave. I am issuing them thebest order I can on the subject.I was going round all my old haunts & found that theTurks had evidently discovered where my pet sniper Sing used to shoot from, as they got on to his place withtheir artillery & had simply blown it to pieces! However Singin the mean time had been invalided for rheumatism, afterhaving got just on 230 Turks. They are careless fellows&when going round that day I had a small hole made in myleg by a bit of a bomb, but luckily it was through mythick leather gaiters, so did no harm.Ive enclosed letter from "Dolly Wight" will amuse you!I haven't the least idea who she can be, have I? : Ithink she must be an entire stranger - What rum 'unsthere are in the world - But it was very kind of her tohave thought of writing - I had a letter the otherday from Mrs Monty Butter asking me about someman she wanted me to send home.Goodbye my own little lamb &all my love toyou &the children.Ever your very loving old,Will.