Author: William Birdwood Date: 25 November 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: M.E.F.25 November 1915. My own darling girl,I am getting awfully annoyed & rather anxious aboutyour evident non-receipt of my letters, for I see there mustevidently be many you do not get. Not only is it so vexatiousnot knowing what you don't receive, but if they go astray Ifeel I can not write nearly so fully as I do to you for thereis no knowing into whose hands they may not fall. There isone thing you can make up your mind to - that is - if anyquestions you have asked me are not answered it is eitherbecause I have not got your letter - or previous ones of minehave gone astray - for when writing to you, I always haveyour letters before me & go through everything you havesaid - referring to it in answering to it. Also no weekhas ever passed without my writing to you, while youtell me my last two are dated 30 Sept & 15 Oct. Soevidently one if not two between have gone astray, as Ihave often posted 2 letters within 2 days.I fancy I have got most of your letters though they arrivevery irregularly, but some have evidently gone astray, as inone just received you say you told me "Dr. Goss saysthere is nothing much wrong with Judith's eyes". Well thisis the very first I have heard of the result of youtaking her there & I have been longing to hear about it. In fact, some time ago I wrote asking you to be sureto let me know, as beyond you saying you were taking her upto town to see him, I had heard nothing of your visit -.Your last week's letter was 23rd Feb - one just reced is 31st.You probably wrote between. Would you like me to numbermy envelopes? I used to do it when I was writing Mother &you can then always see if one has gone astray, if you donot receive consecutive numbers - you might do the same -begin the next one 1.? As in your last letter you stillask about things I have received - I write about theseagain - though I have certainly already done so 3 times.Do please let me know if you get this letter! I havereceived I think all the weekly parcels of fruit fromHarrods - but not one with shortbread. Moving about asI have been doing this last month - a night or two everywhere,I haven't been able to see any of my things, & I find I haveover half a dozen tins of fruit now accumulated here,so please do not send any more. I am now in a Regularmess at A.H.Q. where they get such things as they want,so really special things sent like this are notwanted little one - they get tinned milk etc. Stewardis most awfully good about to such things & looks afterme like anything. I do wish we could alwayskeep him!The two stores have not yet arrived, but they would be sure to take some time, in the meantime the excellent Lotboniere has got me one. I nowhave him back on my Staff as Chief Engineer of the Army& Genl. Williams has gone on to Sir C Monro. I am gladto have old Lobo back, & he is in our mess.Mrs Hilton's money I so well remember writing about in detail& later on I also did so to Chris. Maj. Wright had alwayssaid he meant to do something for Chris, but beyond thesilver Christening mug he gave him when I came back fromS. Africa, I never thought more of it. I heard he had left allhis money to Mrs Hilton, though I believe he gave a sum of2 or 500 to Walter Numan - probably for his boy in the sameway as for Chris. The money is all right with the PublicTrustee there is nothing more you can do in thematter : he will pay dividends as due into the account atthe Bank, as I think you asked him to do. Thebath towels have just arrived & many thanks for themlittle one - they will do me capitally, though alas! allsea bathing is now over, as it is much too cold & I amno longer right on the beach as I used to be -I am glad to hear you have got the 333 allright. You will not get any such sum again,as it was only a lot of back pay I haven't spent.Will you please be sure to let me know if the Bank has also been credited with a sum of about 50 or52 - which they should have got some months ago - it mayhave been sent as "Lodging allowance" - which was duefor my time in Egypt, to partly cover expenses of Shepherd'sHotel. I see you have evidently now got my lettersaying to invest all future savings in the war loan, sothat is all right. Don't send tinned milk or butter, aswe can get them both - & now that I think of it, if 2tins fruit have been sent me weekly, I certainly canonly have got about one half, as not nearly so many tinsas that have come. Did you get a letter in which Icomplained of Harrod's bad packing, resulting in somearriving broken to pieces, & only coming at all, by somekind friend having re-addressed them for me! This iswhen they are done up in paper only - but when in boxesthey have arrived all right. There have been fearfulcomplaints about mails here lately - no one had hada letter of any sort for about 3 weeks, when a mailarrived today.I am so thankful to think little Judith's eyes areall right, as I should have been most unhappy ifI thought they were really wrong - did Cross sayshe was to do anything particular for them in theway of resting, bathing, or anything else? I must say I quite agree it is wonderfully goodof Capt Wray at his age serving as a Captain, but Ipresume & hope there will be no question of his going toFrance. You never told me how old Percy had returned fromthere - your father did & I have asked Fitzgerald to seeif he can't possibly get him employment again in somecapacity or another.I really don't think you are called on to take a flat inLondon to look after committees. It seems to me that youalready do quite your share in a lot of work for the Australians& others, and I don't think they can complain about you,specially if you already spend 100 a year on general warpurposes.I'm so glad you have been staying with the Wrays and LadyRobinson, as I'm sure such little outings must do yougood, especially as Lady R. seems so very nice. But ifyou find it affects you sleeping in any way, little kid,by being kept up late, don't for a second hesitate to askher let you go to bed as early as you like - I am sureit is what she herself would wish you to do. The Red Xmatinee certainly know how to charge, as I call 2.2a lot for a matinee, but of course it was a very specialreason & cause. Go & see, or write to Mrs Cliff whenyou can, as I'm sure she means well - you knowthat my A.D.C's mother, named her Father!! Me ladyI believe she so much objects to!!I got your wire saying you had received mine with the message for all your Xmas cards. I was soglad to know that it was evidently what was wanted &that New Zealanders were included.Col. Cole told me he had been so awfully glad to see youat St. Thomas', do go there again to see him if you have timewhen you are next in town.Would you send me from a chemist's a small bottle toTatcho - or any such thing for my hair, as I have nothing ofthe sort here - except some kerosine oil!!! So tell themto send a half size bottle I think it is called -You are sending me a Lett's Diary No. 35 for next year,aren't you? Did you get a letter I sent you to see from my Uncle Georgeabout Sir Ian's despatch?I enclose two letters you may care to see - one is fromthis funny little man - rather a wag - who was ourtelegraphist in Lord K's home all the time I was inPretoria, & who, I told you, sent me one of those photos ofmyself swimming marked "Photo by Mrs Pankhurst"!I have been having a horrid & very anxious time latelyabout which I cannot write, about our future plans. I amnot at all happy about them & they are giving me much anxiety.I spend a part of every day tearing about in a destroyer to seemy Corps Commanders & it was delightful the welcome I gotwhen I went back to Anzac 2 days ago, after being awaysome time with Lord K & knocking about between here& other places. We have just had a fearful storm - thank goodnessI landed before it was very bad! Goodbye my own little wife. Allmy love to you. Ever your very loving Will - 1.a.m.