Author: William BirdwoodDate: 4 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling Jenny JaneWe have been rather cut off from the outside worldfor the last few days by a South-Westerly wind which hasmade landing extraordinarily difficult & done a lot of damage toour boats &piers. As it was really quite wild, one begins tosee what things may be like in the winter when we maybe entirely cut off for days & almost weeks from any communicationsof any sort! A lively sort of existence if it comes about!I haven't any more news at present as we are now likely to have tosettle down for a bit before any other move can be contemplated& I am waiting for Bingo Byng on my left to be ready & able toshove on. I hear that Col. Cole was wounded over there on 21stlast month, but I have heard no particulars - in the shoulder Ibelieve but not very bad. I had just been asking that he mightbe given a Brigade command. I fancy he will have gone toEgypt, but - once a man leaves here in a hospital ship wenever hear of him again. Col Bateman- Champain hasjust arrived with the 4th Gurkhas &we are glad to havethe reinforcements as my other Gurkha Regiments areabout 300 short each only. None of my Australians areany better as the numbers I have to invaliddaily are awful. I am glad to say I am now getting a new Australian Division & am using them entirely torelieve my old one which I am going to send off to Lemnosor Imbros for a complete month's rest where I hope theymay be able to get into tents - have a daily wash with outfear of being shot & I hope get a look in at a canteenwhich is perhaps what they want as much as anything.So many of them have got so weak that they really areuseless except to stand behind a wall & shoot. It seemsextraordinary that great strong men should get rundown in such a manner. What I have got to do, is to try& get them to pick up before the winter as otherwise thecold & damp here will find them out horrendously & halfof them will go down with pneumonia.I heard from Maud the other day, telling me they had metyou & Nancy some time ago - you never told me. I don'tsuppose you are likely to be seeing anything of themagain just yet awhile.By the bye I wonder if you could remember to sendme later on a Lett's Indian & Colonial Rough DiaryNo. 35 for next year. I shall not of course want ittill Xmas, so there is no sort of hurry about it,but you might make a note of it.Also what I do want is one bath towel - nota huge big one like those lovely ones your Father has , but a moderate sized one that doesn't take upso much room. Those I have here are getting torn topieces. Also do you think you can get me a pair ofslippers. I enclose the measurements of my foot: whichI think should do to go by. I want something fairly substantial& not so big that one cannot walk about comfortably withoutthem coming off! I walk down to the beach for my daily swimin them always & my present pair is about worn out. While Iam on the subject of sending things out. Are you sendingme your copies of the "Times" when done with at the end of theweek? I very often do as a matter of fact see them regularlyhere, but sometimes do not, so a regular supply wouldbe nice, though of course cut out anything you ever wantbefore sending them. Wasn't that a fine Punch cartoonof Christ & the Emperor? It will go down with the one of"Letting down the Pilot".I had one more biggish fight since our big advance, intaking a hill on my left, during which we had nearly2000 casualties, but I am glad to say caused losses ofat least between 4 and 5000 to the Turks. I am alwayshoping that these heavy losses may do something toweaken their opposition, And at present they don'tseem to do so & goodness knows when they will. Thereis one thing I am sure of, that is that they are fearfully keen on not having a winter Campaign here - but thatthey may not be able to avoid! I have just heard thatMillbank was after all killed - one never knows whatto believe. I met little Major Lance (19th Bn) yesterdaywho told me this - he is now with the Yeomanry & isofficiating for Colonel Cole who he tells me got arather nasty wound - a bullet through the shoulder& chest, so I daresay he may not be back here- atall events not for a long time- Lance himself hasbeen here (with Bingo Byng's force) about 3 weeks & waslooking very well. he is sure though to be hit soon- healways is!I have just got your letters of 5th & 16th - The latterabout a day before the former! The one of the 5th hadI see been forwarded by the War Office to the office ofthe High Commissioner for Australia in the firstinstance & had marked on the back of it "Reportedwounded but still performing duties 15-5-15". !!Rather un-necessary eh? On the 5th you wroteabout Monk's son - youmight let her know thatI fear it came altogether too late for me tobe able to do anything about it, for as you know I had long ago seemed deCrespigny -& failing himI fear there are many others I would naturally takefirst though from his report he seems to be an excellentboy. I have recently had Angelsey away sick, & have tosend Chirnside away to Egypt - also sick - but there really isvery little for an A.D.C to do here & Angelsey is now back.You have been breaking out in the swimming line, going outof your depth, but even with Chris there I don't think itis very safe, so don't you try such larks again littleone! I must sayHarefield seems a most charminglittle place & rather like what one would like to settledown in when we retire? Such places with the ideallittle house are however astoundingly difficult to come by& there is always some fatal drawback of sorts - the house-the drains (or want of them) - distance from a station etc.Is Revel going to stay on with your father after the warwhen he is married? If not your father certainly oughtto take on my little Steward who is such an excellent fellow& I am sure would do him real well- a teetotaller - alwaysmost willing & hard working, I fancy would turn his handto anything & probably, learn to drive a motor in no time.I don't know how useful he would be though in otheroutside work. but by the end of this war, he shouldhave learnt something about ponies- I am so gladyou are seeing something of the men in the hospital &I am sure they will appreciate this - they are such realgood fellows & so seldom have any complaints. All ofthe first lot though are fearfully close now & for the timebeing practically useless, so I am trying to get themall away for at least a month's rest to one of those Islandswhere the climate may not be different but where as theysay they will at all events be able to sleep in comfortwithout the constant chances of shells & bullets - of theformer I hardly remember one coming in at night sincepoor Onslow was killed, though of course we have lots allday. The Turks however never seem to tire of rifle fire& some nights I hear bullets coming over at any & everyhour when I am awake - irrespective of course of attacksor " draws" which we often carry out & make themwaste thousands of rounds for nothing. The men thoroughlyenjoy this & I always make an old Regt show everynew lot what it means as otherwise new troops areliable to be alarmed when they hear machine guns &hundreds of rifles firing away just a few inches overtheir heads as hard as they can go- it makes anappalling din, especially the echoes in the valleysThe contrast between my men & the newly landedTerritorials & this army is rather awful - my men seemalmost able to eat two of them and it makes one think a bit- I am only afraid that it may makethe Australians think that these are all this British Armycan produce & that they are so much better than themI am glad to say that so far they get on together mostcapitally & are the best of pals. I now have the 54thTerritorial Division (Genl Inglefield) with me, as well as my3 own Divisions - which should mean about 50,000 men - butalas all are so weak that we are very far short of that.Charlie Chitty's son has come as a Territorial Subalternbut haven't yet seen himHarcourt Butter has suddenly taken to writing the mostaffectionate & flattering letters, which nearly make one blush -very nice of him, but I cannot think why he should.I fancy he got to Burma as LG in October & wrotelast on his way back to India, as he is to be in Suvlafor a bit now.What lovely places you seem to have found you atHarefield & it is certainly very nice for Nancy havingfriends like the Steddalls & Harlands to go tofrom time to time for tea etc, Chris too I am sureenjoys his Bathe & it is nice of Mrs Goodlaketo have allowed them to use her grounds.I can quite imagine Mrs Harland being rather alarming but with 22 children, she will need be! Fancyhaving to look after a lot like that - why it mustbe worse than an Army Corps.I have written about [[?]] pension & will let youknow as soon as I get a reply, for personally I haveno knowledge of the [[?]] regulations about suchthingsGoodbye little lamb & all my love to youalwaysEver your ever loving old,Will.