Author: William Birdwood Date: 6 June 1915. Nationality: Australian. Text: I fancy that we here, are in a very differentposition to the senior Generals in France whohave to remain right away in rear of thecentre of their long lines. Here we are crampedup into rather a small position into almostany part of which the enemys guns can reachus & this will be worse as we advance for Ifear their heavy artillery on the Khalid Bahrplateaux & from the big Forts at the Dardanelleswill then be able to get at us a bit more & wewill have to dig in very carefully., also withthese troops I have to, & must go round themdaily & satisfy myself how they are gettingon & I feel it up to me to share with themin everything. In a regular big fight it isdifferent - I then cannot of course be in thetrenches, as I must be somewhere central tocontrol things generally, which can only bedone by telephone, as there is nowhere, whereone can see more than a small portion of thefiring line at a time. The men are so wellfed that they are quite happy - & indeed I do feel that we are all quite a happy familyhere together. You cant treat these fellowslike regular soldiers, with barrack squarediscipline, but you can get a lot of intelligenceout of them by more casual methods. Bombsare a present our bete-noir - as they are of theTurks. I took a Turkish Trench the other day &our boys made themselves quite happy therewith many sandbag traverses from enfilademachine gun fire, etc, & were I hoped quitecomfortably settled, when the Turks beganthrowing large bombs into the trenches, fromall directions, & simply blew them out of itas nearly all got badly wounded. Col: Lotbinirehas now made an excellent gun cotton bombfor us - which bursts, with tremendous force, &I fancy we have blown many Turks to pieces withthese, & prisoners tell us they are terrified ofthem, and are now making head cover, in alltheir trenches to protect themselves. Theirguns have been rather quieter lately, buthave just begun again & as I write aredropping lots of shells into the water, only about20 yards away, but at an angle at which theyjust dont get the beach itself, though they arefalling all around, our boats & piers - and have very rapidly dispersed a lot of men, whowere bathing at the time! I really do not foreseewhere the end of all this, is to be unless Turkeycollapses which I fancy is easily possible, & ifGreece, or the Balkan states come in, I should sayvery probable - a Greek force landed near herewould make all the difference, and I dont thinkthe Turks would last long after it, as we shouldbe able to cut off their supplies, otherwise, ifit is to be a case of driving them from oneposition to another, we may take any time overit.