Author: William Birdwood Date: 4 April 1915. Rank: Lieutenant Nationality: Australian. Text: My own little wife. At last we really are all leaving here. I am going with my staff on Tuesday & every one else goes by degrees as it takes some time to get a big force like this off. I will write again from board ship. It is getting very warm here in tents so the troops will be quite glad to get away - indeed for some time they have been very stale with all this desert work & are longing to get some fighting. I think they little realise what is probably before them & will get as much as theycould wish for. Tell your Father that thelatest addition to my force is a contingentof 500 Maoris. What they will be worthit is hard to say. Brown people & generallyfat. It is very curious that the Australianabsolutely refuses to look at a nativeof any sort & will not allow one evento enter the country. While the Maori is treated absolutely as an equal. Someof them live in the same companies asour men - get the same pay - feed with them& are one of them. All are Christians.Yesterday they gave us a Maori wardance - a most curious affair, itmade them look most weird & one could quite see Canabalism through their skins - the awful faces& gesticulations they made - you couldalmost imagine them tearing bodies to pieces & eating them. But when not dancing they are most mild lookingcreatures & give one this idea of being soft. They have nice voices & speak Englishwith no accent. I have the smallCeylon Planters Contingent with mealso, but most of them have been givenCommissions in the new Army.The last officer to join me is Capt.Evans, husband of the red haired lady at Simler. He has come with my signal Company which has now been temporarily bagged by Sir Ian Hamilton, till his own arrives. I have just taken a day's holiday & ran up the river to see Luxor. I took Carruthers with me. We got there early one morning & at once started off on donkeys to see the "Tombs of the Kings" across the river. Wonderful things they are, though one cannot help thinking they must have been a very doleful race, when a man apparently as soon as he became King, started building his own tomb & went on embellishing it & enlarging it till he died! Apparently the great thing was to make it impossible for the tomb ever to be opened, & those in the Pyramids were sealed up with tremendous care by huge blocks of granite & all marks at the entrance hidden. In these ones, you go first up a regular frontier valley at the head of which are the tombs including Ramases II - the Pharaoh of the [[Nile?]]. In each case they burrowed a tunnel in the side of the hill then cut a series of chambers in the rock - passages connecting each generally all sloping downwards till you come to the tomb. Some had mummies in them, but nearly all are empty. The walls though are covered with carvings & pictures, the of some of which look absolutelynew now after 3000 years. There is areal sameness about them - nearly all being processions, boats, prisoners,libations, sacrifices, fighting etc. Itis the wonderful labour which has beendone & the carvings which are things tobe seen. The Mummie is placed in a hugegranite coffin which must weigh tons& one of the great marvels is how it wasever got there. Then when the funeral wasover a bit of the hill was knocked downover the entrance & all trace of it lost. Itseems rather a waste of all the labourtaken! Robbers in years gone by startedfinding & opening them, but I fancy theremust be many more yet to be found, butit's an expensive job. As well as the tombs we saw the Great Temples of Luxor and[[Cartore?]]. Huge things they are with massesof enormous columns & figures most of whichare in ruins - the grandeur of the conceptionof the enormous work done fill one withwonder. One really wanted 2 or 3 daysthere, while we only had 9 hours; but gotthrough a good deal in that time & nearlyran our French Egyptologist who showedus round to death. I have just been tosuch a nice Church service with one of mycomrades. They are supposed to have onecombined service for Church of England,Presbyterians & Methodists which wasagreed to by them & laid down in Australia.But to this the C of E man refuses tocome! The other two happen to be firstrate men & the Scotchman has given us some A.1. sermons. Today I stopped toCommunion there, a thing I have neverbefore done at a Scotch service, but he was so keen on all denominations joiningthat I did so, & a very nice simple earnest service it was. They presented me with a very nice small bible - or rather New Testament. I have to leave all my Mounted Brigades - I now have four of them - behindme for the present as the country up thereis quite unsuitable for mounted men. Theyare fearfully sick at being left., but I tellthem there is lots of time for them yet.I'm so glad you got to Clifton for Chris' confirmation. You must tell me about Lady [[C?]], Miss [[Denner?]] & Mrs Fremantle.Goodbye my own little one. All my love to you always. Ever your very loving old, Will. Must close. All my love to you always dear heart. Ever your very loving Will. D.O. HEADQUARTERS AUSTRALIAN & NEW ZEALAND ARMY CORPS