Author: William Birdwood Date: 14 June 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling girl,I am so disgusted to hear you haven't beengetting my letters & I do so hope that in your next one I shallhear that several of them have arrived, for I really sent youoff a great many between the time of our landing and our firstmonths here - interesting ones too, telling you about all that hadhappened. I only wish I had numbered them. The first four tellingyou of our landing were written on sheets from my field pocket book &I think I wrote some to Chris too out of this. I am sure I musthave written at least & half a dozen letters before I sent that postcard to Judith, so it is very annoying to think that that is all thathas reached home. It is just possible that the censor may have stopped &destroyed them, though I do not think this is likely as they have alwaysbeen censored here with our stamp. Do be sure & let me know ifyou think you have got them all later on, as very often when I thoughtships would be going I posted two or three in as many days, so youreally should have got quite a lot. Now things are much quieter.The Turks I daresay will attack us again ere long, but I thinkthey are rather afraid of us now & want a lot of working upto attack again, so I am glad to say we are having many lesscasualties daily - about 50 killed & wounded. When we make amove again we must expect to lose a lot. If you rememberit try & tell me the dates of some of my first letters from here, asI fancy they should go on regularly from about 28th April.I am so sorry to hear of poor Bottomley's death. He certainlywas not what I could in any way describe as aloveable character or a man to admire - but "de mortuis nil nisi bonum", and I fancy he was a finesoldier & how Minnie was evidently quite devoted to him,though apparently she hadn't always cause to be so. HoweverI know she will feel this terribly & it must be all the worse for her, the boy being such a young bounder as apparentlyhe is? How is she left off? Fairly well I hope - and I wonderwhat she will do. Your Father will dread the idea of her wantingto stay indefinitely at Thurlby. Poor thing I do feel sorry forher, for I fancy she is rather helpless while I am sure she ismost awfully good hearted - and her appearance is so againsther unless perhaps she now decides to alter this!I see that that nice Capt. Auld has been wounded & is apparently a prisoner in Germany - a bad look out. I forget if when I first wrote to you about old Sir G. ReidI also mentioned a Mr. Mackenzie. He is the High Commissionerfor New Zealand & such a nice fellow, very different to Sir Gwho is always so full of self confidence & bon homie. Mackenzieis a much more retiring & rather shy man but such a sterlinggood fellow, whom I would describe as one of nature'sgentlemen. A Scotchman who possibly migrated to N.Z. as a child or perhaps as his Father did so. I mention him ashe was writing to me last week & talked about havingjust been to see some N.Z. wounded & I told him I wassure you'd be glad to see any if you were in townagain later on - so if he writes to you, you willknow who he is. He is the Hon. T. Mackenzie, C.M.G.if you want to know how to address him.Do you remember our going out to India in the "Sicilia" in 1902 & taking Chris as a small boy?Fancy, I have her here now as one of my hospital ships ( &go on board occasionally (when things are quiet) to see thewounded before they are taken off to Egypt. Wounded aretaken on board every day, & when she is full up she goes off& another ship relieves her. With these submarines about thehospital ship is the only one we can keep lying at anchor& so far the Germans have not attempted to attack her,though I should never be surprised if they do so one ofthese days! I find the best thing to do here is to have a mixed lunch -tea meal! I generally start off round my trenches at about9 & get back about 3.30. I fear that neither Onslow orChurnside who take it in turns to come with me appreciatelate hours very much. I mean not getting back in timefor them to have lunch, but at times I do get back. Theyare both of them now quite accustomed to bullets &shells & have become old soldiers! But my whole positionis now very much safer than it was as I have trenches cutthrough every spur & traverses across every path aroundthe hills, so we can move about with a greatfeeling of safety. The first months or so, I alwaysfelt it was just a doubt if one would get backsafely from the morning's outing, so I used to postyou a letter before I started. Now it is ever somuch safer though of course bullets keep flying over head in many places & in the trenches Iwas in this morning they kept spattering around the loopholes in the trenches - a great satisfaction when you are safelyinside to hear the thud on the sand bag & to see the sand flying harmlessly about! You don't mention if you ever saw Col. Fitz or Lord K.when in London? I do hope you did. You will have got my letter telling you to write to JamesWatson & ask him to invest all spare money we have atthe Bank. If you have not already done so, better do it now, &get him to investxx the total balance - you must tellhim what it is - as you will be getting more early eachmonth. The last 2 letters I have got of yours are dated 26& 27 May. Have you seen Mrs. Townshend? I see her Charlieis up - I imagine Commanding a Division - under Genl. Nixon inMesopotemia, at present probably between Basrah & Baghdadin the country I went over that winter I was up there.The heat there now must be perfectly awful, while Idoubt if there will be much fighting, as most of the Turkshave come across to oppose us here. It is getting quite hot here & we are starting that awful curse of all the East, a plague of flies. They are inmyriads everywhere & make life in the trenches verytrying. Thank goodness the faithful Onslow has been able to get hold of some mosquito netting which makes life much more bearable. Surely Thurlby will be quite quiet & not crowdedwhen you go back? Judy's family will I suppose be there, but otherwise I suppose only you & Kath RobinsI see has gone to [[Bershire?]] - I doubt how he will like itafter a bit.I have heard a good deal about the Northcliffe (Times &Daily Mail) attack on Lord K from Clive Wigram. Lord N.& Rebington apparently went to stay with French & picked up allsorts of gossip from his Staff about shortage of ammunitionetc. & then began this attack. A counter attack by theanti-Northcliffe-ites was only just stopped or there mighthave been a big scandal. Lord K's Garter & the generaldisplay of feeling against the Times & D.M. is about the bestanswer that could have been given, though I knew how annoyeddear old K. will have been about it all.Poor Genl. Aitken. I am sorry for him, though I must sayhe seemed to me to have made a most unholy messof the whole East African Expedition.I'm so glad you met Mrs Hancock as I was sure youwould like her & I hope you may see her again, as shereally is a genuine nice creature who can say & do thingswhich no one but an American can, & if you talk to herfor half an hour, her amusing expressions will make you diewith laughter. I suppose she is having a bit of spell off fromnursing in her Belgian hospital.Have you seen Mrs Lotbinire at all? I hope so, for shetoo is so nice, & he is a perfect dear. I have justhad to send him to Egypt to try & get me some water boats, or we will find ourselves with no waterhere to drink! I first sent him to see Sir Ian about this& I really felt quite flattered when he came back &said Sir Ian had been very nice about me, & had saidI always reminded him of Lord Roberts! I do indeedcall that the greatest praise possible for Lord R wassplendid & in many ways a most ideal & loveablecharacter - while he certainly proved himself one of the finest & greatest of Englishmen of our time.Goodbye my own little lamb. All my love to you& the children always.Ever your very loving old,Will.