Author: W E Peyton Date: 5 February 1917 Location: France Nationality: British Text: General Headquarters,Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force.5th February, 1917.My dear GeneralVery many thanks for your letter, which I was very gladto get, and for the kind congratulations which it contained.I can assure you that the latter are appreciated verythoroughly by me.I think that I have been very lucky all through the war,and any success which I may have met with has been due entirelyto those that I have had under my command. First my splendidbrigade in France, then my magnificent division at Gallipoliand here, and more recently the Corps and now the Army inthis country.Things are going tiptop with us out here now. When Ifirst took over command it was clearly necessary to spendsome time in organising and developing our resources. Muchspadework had been done towards this end, but much stillremained to be done, and it seemed quite evident to me thatit was useless to attempt to take the offensive unprepared.So we spent 3 months in strenuous preparation, during whichtime I lived on the L. of C., and went into everythingpersonally. By that time we had developed our resources inthe way of river, rail and road transport immensely, and wehad accumulated a substantial reserve of stores of all kinds,including supplies, whereas previously we had had to live dayby day from hand to mouth.This made one feel justified in making a move forward,and since the middle of December we have been hard at it makingsteady progress and always driving the Turks before us. Wehave have established ourselves securely on the line of the HAI -an important waterway, the possession of which means much toboth sides - and we have evicted the Turks from positionsextending about ten miles in length on the right bank ofthe TIGRIS which they previously held. The fighting has beenfast and furious, but tough and determined fighters as theTurks are, and they are certainly marvellous stickers whenthey mean business, our men have over and over again provedtheir superiority, and have come, as the results show, mosttriumphantly out of the ordeal.It is a real joy to command an Army with such a finefighting spirit and such determination, and with everyoneputting their backs into it and pulling wholeheartedly togetherwe need have no fears as to the result.It is not only the fighting troops that have done somagnificently, though indeed the work of the regimental Officers,N.C. Officers and Men has been beyond praise, but their effortswould have been quite unavailing if it had not been for theancillary services and on the L. of C. The performance ofthese under the indescribable difficulties existing locallymust, I feel sure, almost constitute a record, for - to takeone item - we are supplying a force which takes close on 500tons daily to feed by a single 2'6" line, and whilst doing soare actually building up a still greater reserve from day today.Our great difficulty is to get at the Turks, who havechosen their position very cleverly, and now that the rainshave begun are protected on almost every side by rivers ormarshes. But we shall continue to find some means of gettingat them and of keeping them busy, although the state of theground from time to time makes movement impossible. The Turkish losses have been very severe throughout thelast month, and far far heavier than ours, in spite of thefact that we have always been attacking. Their counter-attacksgive us our chance, and then the superiority of our artillery,and our plentiful ammunition, coupled with the grit of theinfantry, tells.So you may realise how happy I am in my command, and Iam in camp here in the midst of the troops close behind thecentre of our line.Please forgive this hurried line, which I am dictatingduring the pauses in our fighting, but I wanted to say howmuch I appreciated your kind letter.With very many thanks for your kind wisheswhich are really important.Yrs sincerely,I.S.MaudeMaude. To:Lieut. -General Sir William Birdwood,K.C.S.I., K.C.M.G., C.B., C.I.E., D.S.O.,1st Anzac Corps,British Army in the Field,F R A N C E.