Author: W E Peyton Date: 16 January 1917 Location: France Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: 16.1.1917GENERAL HEADQUARTERS,BRITISH ARMIES 1N FRANCE.My dear General,Under the circumstancesyou mention in your letterof 15th inst. I do not thinkit is any good pursuingour effort to obtain ArtilleryOfficers for the Royal Artilleryfrom the A.I.F. If you seeyour way in the future tohelp us I hope you will do so for I foresee we shall be indesperate straits for officersof all classes later on. I sawDes Vallieres about thisFrenchman Perrier you wishedto keep. He says he is very sorrybut he has the most stringentorders to take every one he alsosaid he has written to you toexplain this. I hope you had a pleasant time at home PrivateIt is very good of you to expressyour regret at the omissionof my name. I of course have[[never?]] written to Maxwell onthe subject- I presume he didnot wish to press the subject-& with men going unrewardedin these Titanic struggles hereit is perhaps just as wellEspecially whilst I remainin my present Batn apptI spoke to the Chief about releasing me but he saidhe considered it was my dutyto stay where I was performing valuableservice to the country, he rathercut the ground from undermy feet by enlarging onthe advantage it was to himself& the armies for me to remainwhere I am. But after all"the Labourer is worthy of his hire"& he has again put forward thatI should receive the same pay &status which I did before relinquishingmy Divisional Command to take onthis. I feel sorry things have gone wrong for me in life generally& it is no good worrying.If Providence wishes to makea football of one there isnothing to be said or done butgrin & bear it.I do not know why the War officedid not accept the Chiefs' re-commendation for your K.C.B.xxxxxxx The Chief expressed surprisewhen I told him of the omissionI do not know if he will speakabout it whilst in England. Not only have your own service,more than deserved it, butyour troops & the people inAustralia must resent theirfailure to recognize your services.There are a queer lot at the WarOffice who scratch each othersbacksYours alwaysWE Peyton