Author: William Birdwood Date: 11 April 1915. Rank: LieutenantLocation: S S Minnewaska Nationality: Australian. Text: My own darling Jenny Jane.Here am I on still anothersteamer this time - and such a nice onetoo - over 14,000 tons, and I have not onlya nice Cabin, but a small sitting roomthrown in - a sort of American millionairessuite. I don't suppose I shall ever againtravel in such luxury - and certainly onceI get off this ship, it will be a case ofreal [[pigging?]] it, I fancy, with practicallynothing more than one can take ashoreon one's back for a considerable time.Later on though I daresay we willgetting back here to go on - but that must depend entirely on how things goon land - once we can effect a landing!I went down to Alexandria from Cairoa few days before the troops to see Sir Ian.While there Onslow & I stayed with a brother& sister-in-law of Carruthers (he is a Brig-General now.) Very nice people: he is bigger &a good deal stouter than our Carruthers &is Manager of the big Anglo-Egyptian Bank.She is a very nice woman too - nice lookingbut at times painfully deaf, which makesconversation very trying though at times shesuddenly seems to hear. The place remindsone very much of Bombay - the English peoplelive right away at what might be MalaherHill without the hill. Houses facing out(like my old Father's did) to the sea on abay of their own, & in the early morning I went down straight from the house,as we did at Thurlestone & had a lovelyswim with the waves breaking over oneas there was a bit of a storm on. Idon't know that it is a place one wouldmuch care for, though it has huge advantagesover Bombay, in that it is only 5 daysfrom home & it is never really hot. Theykeep such stupid office hours though. 10-12.30 -then a break & siesta French fashion (& old Egypt is very French) till 3.30 - andwork again till about 6.30. We have abig native hospital there at presentfor men from France en route to India. Ahospital ship had just taken a lot offso only 150 were there when I went tosee them - nearly all wounded butdoing well. It was rather nice to be greeted occasionally by beaming smiles & to find this was from men of the 58th or 59th who recognised me from Kebat days & seemed really glad to see one again - though all were quitepleased to find a 'General Sahib' having a talk to them in a strange land intheir ones own language. I am rathergladthat I now have attached to my Army Corps the two Native Mountain Batteries from the Canal - & I am shortly to be joined by Genl.Coxs Brigade to complete my numbersas I have had to leave all mymounted troops (4 Brigades)behind in Cairo for the present.I would much rather have had the Frontier Brigade, butYounghusband commands it, & he issenior to my two Divisional commanders.Also I do not want him. LadyMcMahon & Col. Trench were in Alexandriafor a day while I was there looking at alovely house he has taken for the Summer.She was so very nice, but I am afraidshe is very ill. I told you I thoughtshe was looking so much better - but shetold me that as a matter of fact shefelt so frail she really only carriedon from day to day & daren't attempt tomake plans or think of the future. Ireneis still in bed but better. Lady Mac said she had heard such nice thingsgenerally about Nancy from Simler last year.With this force I find Major Wynterwho was in Kebat - he now commands aTerritorial Mountain Battery. I think he toldme he had left his wife & the small boy atWeymouth. Genl. Hunter-Weston has thatDivision - and a very good one it is, beingcomprised almost entirely of Regts fromIndia & it has capital artillery. I hadsome Cairo photos sent you - will youplease keep them for our books. Chriswould I know like to see them, as heasked me to bring some home, & Ididnt want to drag these about withme. By the bye I got a letter last weekfrom the old Khansamah asking if wehad entirely forgotten him: he was in work at Dehli but said he wouldtry for a job in Simler soon, as hewasn't for standing the heat of Delhi lateron! You might send him a line to Edie.Has Chris been to a dentist lately? If notdo please write & see that he goes to onedirectly he goes back to school, as I amsure it is so very important for childrento be seen regularly by a dentist - itmay just keep their teeth right for life.I got the two snapshots of Judith in the car all right - but how she seems to have growneven in these few months & looks quite a pertyoung lady sitting up in the car instead of aninfant, indeed I hardly recognised her.& I have no idea who the others are exceptNanny.We have just been having two very nice services on board - Communion & Church parade - both held by the Methodist Chaplain- such a good fellow who spoke very nicely to the men & I made them a small speech too. Well little one my own, by this time next week we may well be engaged in heavy fighting & I hope may have succeeded in doing what have never yet I believe been done in history (except perhaps at the battle of Hastings) viz. to have effected a landing on an open hostile shore in the face of organized & determined opposition which we are likely to meet: much must of course depend on the success of our plans - in deceiving them as to our landing place etc - while we are very much at the mercy of the weather. A strong wind getting up suddenly might frustrate everything! However at this time of year the weather should be more settled & we must hope for a day or two of quite calm sea. For you can S.S."MINNEWASKA." imagine what a business it is trying to land an Army, with all its men, horses, guns & wagons, and then making arrangements for its supplies of food, water & ammunition when landed - the failing of any one of which might lead to ruin. The men are splendid & are all actuated with absolutely the right spirit & I know will fight for all they are worth, dashing at anything. If it was only a case of being able to get at close quarters, I should have no sort of doubt as to very speedy success, but the difficulties will be great in the way of trenched positions everywhere covered by acres of barbed wire. At Neuve Chapelle lanes were made through the wire by our continuous heavy gun fire on the entanglements - that we can not afford to attempt here, as being so far off our base we can not possibly afford to expend ammunition in the lavish way necessary for that, so we must try all other devices we can, and I fear we must expect heavy losses. If it was only Turks we could rely on finding them short of ammunition - no thorough arrangements etc - but we may be quite sure the Germans with them will have seen to everything being right by now. The delay over the whole thing is most lamentable - or rather I should say the premature action of the Navy tryingto get through on their own before any military arrangements were made - and the publicity given to the whole thing. It strikes me as being much on a par with all our advertising about the magnificence of our first "Dreadnought" which so incited Germany to do all she could to be level with us. Well before this reaches you we should have been through with the difficulty of our landing & first big fighting. I of course do not expect that anything will happen to me & naturally will not thrust myself into places I should not be in as a General - still I have to go where I feel I may be most wanted if necessary to encourage the men - to reconnoitre positions - and generally do ones best to ensure confidence & make for success - and should anything happen to me, you will always know I have done my best facing the front with confidence. You know I have thought deeply about this war - for years I have seen it as absolutely inevitable. Now that it has come I regard it as an absolutely just war as far as we are concerned. We are fighting for no sort of agrandisement or power, but in an entirely just cause to maintain our rights & independence, which Germany would most certainly have crushed had we not stood up to her now - and had we not done so it would have meant an end to our country, & misery & degredation to our children & children's children. It is then incumbent on every Englishman - & of course especially every soldier - to be ready to do all & everything he can down to giving his life for his country. I have all along realised this though as far as I am concerned I look upon the Dardanelles as far more hazardous than anything I should probably have had to do in France, where in trench warfare the roll of the General must to a great extent be very limited. But my own little wife if anything should ever happen to me, you will know that at the last I will be thinking of you & the little ones, for it is only you who might be left behind who would suffer - for me it would be nothing - and I know you wouldS.S."MINNEWASKA". wish always to know I had and fearlessly done my duty to my country - for your sake & the children's - & all of you at home. I need hardly say I would not write like this if everything wd. not be over before you can get this, so you can tear it up & laugh at my perhaps morbid thoughts, which are only the result of my knowing what a serious undertaking is before us - and one in which the Sultan of Egypt told me, it was quite impossible to contemplate such a thing as failure. I hope & think I have thought out everything & Skeen is a perfect treasure in such matters. I think I told you Sir Ian had accepted all the plans I made out before his arrival in toto & so I trust they are for the best - though the long delay has a good deal altered matters , & I consequently suggested an alteration to Sir Ian, but he still wants to stick to my original proposals. My own Australians & New Zealanders are good enough to let me know I have won their confidence& as I say I have no doubts about them, fighting like tigers & enjoying it - though they don't yet quite realise though all that is before them. I do hope you are sleeping quite all right now my little one - with the lovely weather coming on & motor drives like the one you had to Cleethorpe you certainly should & I am so glad you are at home to go out like that with your old Father who must love having you to go with him. They have just come for the mail, so I