Author: William BirdwoodDate: 6 June 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling girl.I have just got your letter of 20th & very glad toget it too, for it seemed such a long time since I had heard.I am awfully annoyed though to know that by then you had gotno letters at all from me here since our landing. I have writtenyou a lot & I do hope they will all turn up in due course. Thefirst one must have been about 3 days after we landed, so youshould easily have got it before 20th May, but I know the postsare very bad operating, worse from here than to us - at all eventsas far as your letters are concerned, for sending them through theWar Office as you do they sometimes come in the specialKing's Messenger bag to Sir Ian & I get them well before theordinary mail.I fancy that we here are in a very different position tothe senior Generals in France who have to remain rightaway in rear of the centre of their long lines. Here weare cramped up into rather a small position into almostany part of which the enemy's guns can reach us & thiswill be worse as we advance for I fear their heavyArtillery on the Khalid Bahr plateaux & from thebig forts atthe Dardanelles will then be able to get at us a bit more, & we will have to dig in verycarefully. Also with these troops I have to & must goround them daily to satisfy myself how they are gettingon, & I feel it is up to me to share with them in everything.In a regular big fight it is different. I then can notof course be in the trenches as I must be somewhere centralto control things generally which can only be done by telephone, as there is nowhere, where one can see more thana small portion of the firing line at a time, so youneedn't bother about me little one in that way. Ifhowever I couldn't go round my trenches & didn't know formyself exactly how each one was situated - how it washeld - what was to be done if it was heavily attackedor taken etc. I should be miserable, & I am sure thatwhen the troops all realize that one is up & aboutamong them all day they must be much happier, than if they thought one was sitting still & letting others run[[?]]. As a matter of fact though I always say thatonce in most of the trenches one is in the safest placefor they are now very well made & you hear bullets comein with thuds on the parapet outside with the greatestcomfort. Going round one lot yesterday who had noenemy's trenches quite close to them, I told themI thought their's was the health resort of the force, which quite seemed to amuse them. The men are sowell fed that they are quite happy, & indeed I dofeel that we are all quite a happy family heretogether - you can't treat these fellows like regularsoldiers with barrack square discipline, but you can geta lot of intelligence out of them by more casual methods.Bombs are at present our bete-noir - as they are of theTurks. I took a Turkish trench a few days ago & our boysmade themselves quite happy there with many sand bag havensfrom enfilade machine-gun fire etc & were I hoped quitecomfortably settled, when the Turks began throwing largebombs into the trench from all directions & swiftly blewthem out of it, as nearly all got badly wounded. OldLotbiniere has now made an excellent gun-cotton bomb forus which bursts with tremendous force & I fancy wehave blown many Turks to pieces with them, & theirprisoners tell us they are terrified of them & arenow making head cover in all their trenches toprotect themselves. Their guns have been rather quieterlately, but have just begun again & as I write, they aredropping lots of shells into the water only about 20 yardsoff me, but at an angle at which they just don't getthe beach itself, though they are falling all aroundour boats & piers, and have very rapidly disperseda lot of men who were bathing at the time! I really do not foresee where the end of all this is to beunless Turkey collapses which I fancy is easily possible -and if Greece & the Balkan states come in. I should sayvery probable. A week hence the Greek elections take place& after them I fancy Greece is very nearly sure to come in &join us, & Roumania will do so also. A Greek forcelanded near here would make all the difference & I don't thinkthe Turks would last long after it, as we should be ableto cut off their supplies. Otherwise if it is only to bea case of driving them from one position to another, we maytake any time over it.I have been so sorry to see poor old Alfred Edwards' boy hasbeen killed in France. Their only child & I know how devotedto & proud of him they were. I fear it will be a terribleblow to them - they are still in Rhodesia. I see too thatyoung Frank Mandall has been wounded & Kenneth is again, butI hear he isn't at all bad.I think you might very well all go over to France for thesummer holidays, some little fishing village in Normandyor Brittany would I imagine be quite lovely & youwould all enjoy it thoroughly - but of course Chris wouldnot learn anything like the same amount of French whenyou are all together as he would if by himself inan entirely French family. In Brittany youwuld be quite safe & I believe it is quitea lovely country all about there; & very nice people, and if you all do go I tell you what I thinkyou might very well do, & that is to send Chris from therejust for a week or 10 days to the Stappers. I believe eventhat short time would do him good & get him a littleinto the way of thinking in French, which is what isreally wanted. He would like his time there too I amsure, so you might think of it, & by all means all ofyou go over there - and why not get Mrs Muir to go overwith you all? I believe she'd love it too. Mind you letme know as soon as you have got my first letter from hereas I shall be so disgusted if you don't get them, when Ihave written so many. Sir Ian & Capt. P. would of course gettheir letters sent home by King's Messenger but I can't do that.I think it was most awfully nice of the Newton Moores tohave motored you down to Chichester & I expect you quite enjoyedit, driving through all that lovely country. The Australiansare a nice lot too - use dreadful bad language - and verykeen on hearing about everything.Fancy you meeting old Miss Knollys at Sir Dighton's. Therefriendship has I believe been the cause of smiles for many yearsamong the Royal household & no one even quite knows why theydidn't get married some years ago. I believe at one timethey had a gravel & to make it up old Sir Dighton had abeautiful new bath room made for her, at I think Windsor, &took one of his lady friends in to show it to her. She wasrather surprised to find he had an awful mirrors allround so that poor old Miss Charlotte could not helpseeing herself everywhere!!I will look out for young Hugh Tate if I come across "Implacable", but she hasn't been near me so far & Idon't know if she is now up in these parts or not.I don't know who the Lady Robinson is you mention, but Iexpect her husband is probably one of the Australian Agents-General like Sir N. Moore. Sir has told me his wife & hersisters were running a small hospital on their own at Malta forour men, but I could see he wasn't quite happy about it onaccount of the expense & said he didn't think that it would beable to afford it very long as they would find it moreexpensive than they thought - and he said he thought this warwould really mean comparative ruin to all of us, & thatwe should eventually find ourselves so heavily taxed to pay expensesthat none of us would have a penny left - so it behoves usall to look out! As a matter of fact they are most awfullywell off & I fancy have at least 10,000 a year of their own. Hejumped at a proposal I made him, that I might perhapsbe able to arrange for some of our Australian nurses to go to thehouse & so save them the expenses of their own - however hefinally decided to think over it, as he was going to seeTreves about it.Goodbye my own little lamb. Lots & lots of love [[Dear?]]always. Ever your very loving old,Will. Mediterranean Expdy Force