Author: A W McGregor Date: 18 January 1917 Location: El Arish Nationality: Australian. Text: El Arish18th January 1917.Dear General,It was very thoughtful ofyou indeed to think of sending mean Xmas card, and I did appreciategetting it a couple of days ago whenit arrived. I was glad to see thatpractically all the names on it werethose who had been with you at Anzacand Imbros, and I recognised themnearly all. I do hope, Sir, thatmatters are going well with you inFrance. I often try and imagine whatit must be like, but it must be absolutelyimpossible for a person to picturethings unless he has seen them himself. If only one could think that this yearwill see the Bosche properly broken,it may be so but he seems to have alot of kick left l in him yet. We have been having a fairlystrenuous time here and had a toughishfight at Rafa a week or so ago. TheAnzacs of course and the New Zealandersdid splendidly, could not have donebetter, and the whole fight turned outa great success but a stiffer one thananticipated. We all became infantryonce our horses had got us here, there andour Brigade had to do a frontal assaulton the trenches over 1000 yards a of verybare ground. We were lucky to get offwith as few casualties as we did and had 45 out of about 300. That mustbe infinite sixmal compared with whatyou have in France but seemed quite alot to us here. The Turk put up a verystubborn fight as he always seems to doin defence but was outnumbered andoutgunned. It has been extraordinary interestinghere for the last six weeks, and thisplace is quite the nicest spot I have beenat in the desert. It should be still moreinteresting if we are going to push onbut there seems to be some doubt as to that. When I was with you at Anzacand Imbros, I used to write a sort ofdiary which I sent Home instead ofa letter. When I was Home on leave Ifound my Father had been amusing himself typing it, and I am askinghim to send you a copy withthis letter which I would be awfullypleased if you would accept. It hasof course only been seen by my family.Have just been reading Bean'sbook, "Light & Shade in War" whichI received last mail from my Aunt Jean.Some of the sketches I thought very pretty.I do hope you are in the verybest of health, SirYours sincerelyA. W McGregor