Author: William Birdwood Date: 18 August 1915 Nationality: Australian Text:My own darling little wife.We have still been having a lot of fightingall round the new bits of position I have taken from theenemy. The Turks evidently hated our taking the series oftrenches of theirs which we called "Lone Pine" on my right& you can imagine what the fighting has been like when I mentionthat we have in three days after taking it dragged over 1000corpses out of the trenches - about half of them I am sorry tosay being our own men. The enemy never ceased attacking,but I fancy we have killed so many of them all round, &especially in rear by our Artillery that they have now chuckedit, though they are sure to come on again later on. I havein this & oth just been through all the trenches & I must saythe Turks had managed to make themselves pretty comfortablefor they had such a lot of excellent head cover made of beautifulstrong timber - a great deal of it recently cut pine trunks &branches, than which nothing could be more suitable &unfortunately we have nothing of this sort in our bit ofcountry.On the left where we made our big move, we have too killedan enormous number of Turks & I must say they are pluckyfellows. Some of my guns are so placed that I couldget right into them in enfilade at the back oftheir positions as they came up the hills to attack and we got right into them in masses as they camealong. A prisoner whom we have just got who was theresays the corpses are so many it is hard to get over themand that they are laid in rows just like corn which hasbeen reaped! And yet they never stopped for a minute.You will remember Capt. Allanson who has just arrived incommand of his Regt. the 6th Gurkhas. He did splendidly &has will been recommended for the V.C - I hope - I was talking to himyesterday just as he was going to hospital. He lead and hisstory nearly made me cry to realize how I hadactually completed all we had to do, but failedat the last moment. He lead his Regt. in theirnight attack on the Turkish position which heactually took & they were chasing the Turks down theother side when suddenly one of our ships, not seeing who theywere put some of their huge shells among them. Some of themblew some of the Gurkhas to pieces & made the rest for thetime being absolutely panic stricken & they bolted down thehills like hairs & Allanson could not get them back. Youmay remember young de Marchand in 56th in Yuhat - hewas attached to them & refused to leave the hill & waskilled. That poor young Dallas boy was shot throughthe head & I hear can not be expected to live - in facthas probably died by now & Allanson was wounded, but not seriously. And all we have fought for is gone, forsince the Gurkhas left the Turks have been entrenchinglike the devil & I shall have an awful job taking itagain as I must do. The only small satisfaction is thatwhen the Turks came down to attack the Gurkhas that nightAllanson assures me they killed about 600 of them, which isin addition to the large numbers we have down elsewhere.Getting into so many of them you would think they must chuckit ere long - Every prisoner tells us they are dead sick of it &are longing to surrender but are not allowed to and their numbersseem inexhaustable - they have I believe about 150,000 in thisPeninsula, which is of course far more than we have.I wouldn't change my men for any - they are just magnificent& I really am more than pleased & proud of them - they havequitesurprised one for I never hoped they would have come on asthey have & I believe they have confidence in me. Goinground all our new trenches up on the hill sides yesterday,they would say "Yes - Sir - we are quite ready to go on killingTurks whenever you call on us - but we are weak as cats& I don't think we could march a couple of miles" - That isthe awful thing that really worries & frightens me. Itis hard to believe how much the really enervatinghot weather here has taken it out of the men - nearlyall have been ailing from the usual eastern stomachcomplaints & this has taken it out of them more than one Could believe possible - Latterly, I have been sending off200 men daily sick - today it has been 400 in additionto about 150 wounded, so the drain becomes awful - ofcourse when the weather gets cooler, things will I hopeimprove much, but in the meantime it makes me veryapprehensive about my next big move. I feel it myself -we all do - fortunately (some can never be sufficiently grateful)I have the strongest of insides & have kept well - also I have notall the hard work - fatigues - carrying heavy loads - digging etcwhich the men have, even then I often feel it is all I cando to drag my legs after me when I have had a longday in the trenches - but seeing & talking to the menmakes it well worth it. I enclose a very nice letttelegram Sir Ian has sent me which you may care to see& keep. I feel very sorry for him as he must be very worried& anxious at present about the uncertainty of the successof his last move - It partly depended on me & I practicallydid all that was possible - but to my left Genl Stopford'sArmy was landed & much depended on him shoving on& occupying an important position without delay - &which I think he could & should have been able to do.But he had all these new troops who don't yetknow how to fight - I have four Brigades & 6 Battalions after me at present in addition to my Army Corps - & didn't manageto shove along anything like what was hoped & has giventhe Turks time & opportunity to concentrate & dig which theyshould never have had - Had he shoved along it would haveensured my success & we would have been near the end here. Inmy own mind I can't help blaming Sir I. to some extent, asknowing Stopford to be rather old & slow, he should ( at least Iwould) have taken much more personal charge & insisted on thingsbeing done & really taken command which he has never yet done -Nowthat it is late he has removed from Stopford (who though a realcharming gentleman is not really up to it) & has put De Lisle into command. The latter is a real thruster- everyone hates him ashe is a brute, with no thoughts for others - rude to everyone &has no principles, but I believe him to be the right man inthe right place, & by his brutality I hope he will see thingsthrough - I hear that some of his material in the shape ofTerritorials is very bad with no idea of fighting - What theirofficers can be like I have no idea, but they they simply have gotto be taught to fight & will lose heavily while doing so.This is so very different from France where all aremerely pieces of a huge machine, with no chance ofexercising individuality or initiative. Here troops aremuch more on their own & training comes in enormouslyI am afraid I am now losing Genl. Williams whois also going to Head Quarters, where as a matter of fact I think he will probably be better placedthan here, as he is perhaps just a little old for the hustleand knocking about. generally all have to do with me here.I am afraid poor old David Shaw has rather come to griefat Aden. The Turks suddenly appeared & attacked there, & heseems to have sent out an insufficiently equipped column in ahurry who were to some extent overcome by the fearful heat &retired hurriedly letting the Turks capture a good of what theypossessed. Poor Shaw was sent back again to Karachi &Genl. Younghusband sent tk to Aden from Egypt with his Brigade& he is now commanding there & the Turks have retired fromthe immediate vicinity.Do you see that that that rather nice young Johnston girl isengaged to Viscount Sidmouth who has I fancy beenstationed in Lahore with his Lahore Territorial Regiment alllast winter- the Johnston family must be rather pleased!Goodbye little lamb & all my love to youEver your very loving old,Will. X I expect you will probably havereferred to Lou Onslow's death inone of your letters after getting mynews? That letter I have not received.