Author: William BirdwoodDate: 19 September 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling Jenny Jane..I have had a lot to do the last few days settling upthings at Anzac before coming over here to Kephalo - on theIsland of Imbros to stay for ten days with Sir Ian - and Imust say it is very nice feeling one hasn't to think ofanything & can be in at absolute peace for the time being-when I say in absolute peace though. I am wary, as theyrecently started all their air ship sheds etc. close to whereSir Ian has his. H.Q. This the Turks have just found out& consequently are trying to bomb & destroy our machinesetc. Just before I arrived they made a raid & dropped 8 bombswhich wounded 5 men & there last night just as were going todinner we heard a series of bangs quite close & foundtwo Turkish planes right over us & very low down. Theyagain dropped 8 bombs but did no harm. Even though itwas bright moonlight it was impossible to see them unlessthey happened to get right between you & moon, thoughof course you heard them passing over & they seemed to beonly just over the tents from the noise. They arejolly bad shots though & it will be bad luck if they domuch harm - Capt. (now Col) Sykes who was in Suvlais here in charge of our air craft, some of which wereat once sent off to retaliate by an attack on the Turkishsheds & though they came back saying they had smashedup things there, I rather doubt it.And I have had a new sensation on my first fly! I firstof all went up in a small air ship which they haverecently got, & we just flew about round this place for10 minutes or so at a height of about 700 ft . It wasquite nice though there was a strong wind & she keptdiving her nose down & then bringing it up again.As soon as we got back I heard a tremendous lot ofheavy gun fire going on at Anzac which is onlyabout 12 miles off & as it might have been a Turkishattack I thought I might as well go over there, so Igot on an aeroplane and off we went! I was piloted bya Capt Samson R.N whom you may have heard of - earlierin the war he did some rather famous flights in France& is I fancy a very good man. The actual starting offis I think the most alarming part of it # asyou taxi along the ground at about 60 miles anhour before getting into the air - directly you are inthe air it is all right and one feels nothing at allin the way of being alarmed. We went up to 7000ft & even that is not high enough to be safe fromenemy's shells- we went over at about 70 miles anhour & Samson said we might have been doing nearly100 on part of the way back - At the same time you don'thave any feeling of going at an awful pace, thoughof course there is the terrible rush of air past you thewhole time & it whistles & howls through the sails- which combinedwith the roar of the engines & propeller makes it impossibleto hear anything. It gets very cold too. I was given special clothesin which you would think it was impossible to feel cold. AComplete airtight thick leather suit lined with thickwool. Cap & all complete & even then it was pretty coldFlying right over the peninsula it all looked so extraordinarilyeasy and it seemed quite impossible to believe that we couldn'tget over those few miles as of course it all looks sosmooth & flat. But when right over and looking down onour positions you saw all the huge network of Turkish trenchesstretching all over the hills and going right back for miles.The bombardment had practically ceased when I got overthere, but one could still see shells falling in differentplaces - men moving I couldn't see at all. After circlingover we turned round & came back again. Landingseems quite difficult but I must say Samson broughtus down beautifully.Sir Ian and Braithwaite both seem very well as doesPollen who is always so very nice to me and Winston Churchill's brother, who is Sir Ian's Camp Commandant &who was with me for a short time in S. Africa - & isI should say a much better fellow than his brother W.always cheery ready to help. But it all seems a regularpic-nic - one lives in tents with no fear of shells & walk aboutanywhere with no idea of bullets. I am dining with Admiralde Robeck on his flagship "Triad" - he is such an awfullynice fellow & I am always glad to see him. I have broughtAngebey here with me as even though he has lately been ona hospital ship I felt he wanted a change next - as he sayshe has never really got out of having grown to 6.3 1/2 & looks sovery difficult. He is a particularly nice fellow & I likehim much. He was telling me yesterday about his matrimonialtroubles at the bottom of which apparently is his mother inlaw and though he is quite prepared to live with his wife againit is only on condition that her mother does not come into thehouse! He tells me that the dirt alone of the 'Souls' is awful& that- he doesn't suppose the Duchess has had her hair properlybrushed out for years !! He was telling me too aboutPrincess Patricia -the old King apparently once wroteto his brother giving them his blessing and saying she wouldhave to ditch the Royal rank on marriage. When his brotherhad to write to say there was nothing in it & that therewas no engagement. Enormous riches must have theirdrawbacks some can see how he has been pushed for his - and he is so nice about it. The amount ofmoney, such they have was rather brought home to me whenwe were discussing the "Triad" which the Admiralty recentlybought, for the Admiral here for 80,000- she was an Americanmillionaires yacht. & Angelsey said he had only pd 55,000for his, which was a much better one!Genl. Peyton came over to see me the other day as didMaher. The former told me he had heard how Cole was verybad from his wound & at one time was not expected to live. Itis however so impossible to hear anything authentic regardingthe wounded once they leave here, that one can believe nothing.Poor Gurney Sheppard - Aileen Clives husband- was killed - youmight write to her if you haven't done so. Skeen I hear hasbeen landed at Malta & I fear he has enteric there. Ihave tried to find out, & if he is to be away a long timeI am to have Col. McMunn sent me in his place, but Imuch hope this may not be necessary.I was rather pleased at getting a very nice wireof happy returns of the day from the General Head Quartershere on my birthday, which Gnl. Braithwaite hadapparently happened to look up in the birthday army list!I see some of the papers have been publishing rathergood accounts of all our fighting here in August-& the doings of "Anzac". We shall have to go downto France I fancy geographically as well as historically. When my Army Corps was first formed, I was asked tosettle on a telegraphic code word & selected "Anzac"Then after we had landed here I was asked what Iwished the little bay in beach to be called, as allthe different beaches are constantly to be referredto in order & I selected "Anzac Cove", & as such I see itnow marked in maps & as part of this peninsula isreferred to as "Anzac". & as such will have to figure infuture maps!I am wondering so much if you have ever got all myletters - as in your last of 22nd Aug, I see that there areseveral things you haven't heard of & about which I havewritten. Did you ever get my letter about the flowerseeds? I mean the original one I wrote a long timeago asking you to send some to Isabel Vaughan-Hughes?And did you get one telling you all about old Col Ryan?He is such a dear kind old man & I hope you mayperhaps see more of him- if you are in London again be sureto ask him to tea or something if he is still there. Hetold me he expected to return to my staff but I understandthere is no chance of his being strong enoughever to be able to do that or to stand the knocking about,though he will probably be all right in Egypt.I have been most awfully sorry to hear of poor old Genl. Broome's death. He had been over to Australiaon some [[?warrant]] duty work & died at Colombo ofheart on his way back- I fancy he had been bad for along time - he was such a dear nice fellow.Just got a letter from Nancy of 29th- While your last is 22nd-but one can never tell what happens to them- I haveletters from Bob & Edie of 9th July & 20th August arrivingthe same day, & some which have taken exactly two monthsto reach me here from Egypt - only 3 days journey! Iforget if I sent you a copy of Sir Ian's special orderabout the fighting of my Army Corps last month - I don'tthink I did, but I sent them some time ago to Nancy & Chris& enclose one for you now - your father will like to see it.I don't think I am any thinner now little one. I was-but have got fatter again - I take lunch if I am in, butwith so much to be seen I am generally out as once onestarts off round the trenches it is impossible to get backunder several hours & I am sure it is much the best thingfor me too. Certainly if I didn't go round every day, talkingto the men & finding out if things were all right on myown, I shouldn't be able to gain their confidence to anythinglike this extent. I hope I have done - and I now have fourDivisions in place of two - 2 Australian. 1 mixedAustralian & New Zealand and 1 Territorial - who areabsolute children beside the Australians. I'm sorry you weren't able to see little Gabriel when he was over, ashe would have been interesting & I don't suppose he will be backagain for some time. I have been seeing something of theItalian military attache here & he seems quite optimistic.I am so sorry to hear of poor Wally's wound, as though not seriousit is probably most painful & anything on the jaw must be bad.I hope he will be right again soon. I'm sure you will havebeen quite sorry to leave Hansfield & all the Australians whoseem to have appreciated you so much & I'm so glad youwere always able to see so much of them.Your letter came just right - or as near as possible - 2 days onlyafter my birthday & I was so glad to get it little one. Theshort bread & air pillow will be most welcome & youcouldn't possibly have thought of anything I would so muchhave liked to have - they should turn up ere long.I'm afraid I don't see much chance of a move onfrom here yet awhile, but it is not easy to foresee thesituation for anytime ahead.Goodbye my own little sweetheart - All my love to youEver your very loving old.Will.