Author: William Birdwood Date: 15 October 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Head QuartersM.E.F.15 October 1915.My own darling Jenny Jane,Things have suddenly altered since I lastwrote you a day or two ago - & I rather feel not for thebetter. I got a wire yesterday from Sir. Ian saying I was tocome over to Imbros at once to see him on very urgent matters.I was as a matter of fact taking my first real quiet day inbed since I have been here, as my insides had suddenly gonewrong - nothing to worry about, but the Doctors told me that ifI could lie still for 48 hours I should be absolutely right, whileif I knocked about as usual I might get bad, so Ithought at best to stay in bed to avoid the temptation ofdoing a lot! However of course I had to get up & come overhere at once, to find that poor old Sir Ian had been recalledand that a General Sir C. Monro has been appointed fromFrance to succeed him - & that pending his arrival I was totake over the whole command here pending Monro's arrival.It is a great upheaval - Sir Ian goes today when I take over.I must say, I shall miss him very much as no onecould have been kinder or more considerate to me than healways has been & he is such a dear good fellow &gentleman. He has too often been asked to do theimpossible here - whether these might not have been achieved I will not say, but from the first the difficulties &strength of the Turkish army has evidently been under-estimated from home, and the final success aimed athas been impossible with the troops at our disposal- So itis hard lines that he should be sacrificed in this way - heis I must say most wonderfully good about it - No ranting& raving that it is someone else's fault etc. but justsaying that he has not been fortunate enough to succeed& that there is an end to it - He of course must feel itvery much, but shows it much less than I thought he would.Col. Pollen his A.M.S. takes this letter home with him & Ican't say how good be has always been to me - and bothsay they so much want to see you when they get homeso I hope it may be managed. He has made an A.1. Mil. Sec.always so thoughtful & courteous, and doing all he couldfor everyone, that I shall really miss him. He hasquite loaded me up with things on going - a beautiful"Maud Allen" combined Cape & waterproof sheet - warmgloves - A very nice combined muffler & balaclava capmade for him by old Lady Muir - & several other thingswhich he now finds he doesn't want, but which will beuseful to me here in the winter. It is awfully nice of him,& I think he is one of the kindest hearted fellowsI know. I only wish the new man would take himon in the same capacity as I know he would find him so useful now that he knows all the troopshere & the general run of things.Another man who goes is Genl. Braithwaite & for whom I amalso so sorry & he feels it much. He is certainly an ableman & has had a very difficult job to carry through. I'mafraid he certainly has made himself unpopular - why Idon't quite know, but there is a general feeling againsthim. A short time ago they wired from home to Sir Ian sayingthey had heard this at home and asking if he didn't think itwould be best to send him home & get out someone else. SirIan very loyal to Braithwaite refused to do this - had heagreed I think he would doubtless have been left herehimself for another trial with a new Chief Staff Officer.As it is they both go. Braithwaite will doubtless get someother job at home or in France at once,& I do hope they giveSir Ian something too.Sir C. Monro comes out to a most difficult job which Ido not envy him, for without more troops & more ammunitionI do not think he can do anything at present, while itwill take him some little time to pick up all the threads& grasp the whole situation - this hiatus in command isI think unfortunate. In a week I can do nothing - infact it is not up to me to do so. I merely have tocarry on till Monro arrives & in the mean time havesome considerable responsibility without full knowledge,as I really know nothing of the details or disposition of the troops beyond my own four Divisions & in case of any bigattack might be a little at sea. It is just possible thatthe Turks might make this on the French, but I hope not duringmy short regime - especially as I'd rather not have to run abouta lot till I am quite fit.Curiously enough Byng is senior to me & I hope will not have been hurtat my being put in to command over his head - however the directorder came out from the Cabinet through Lord K. & after all it isonly for a short time. Sir Ian was awfully nice in saying thathe thought I should have succeeded him altogether & wondered thatthis had not been done, but thought that possibly they did notwant to remove me from the Command of the Australians - & asthings are I must say I am quite happy that they Ishould have been left with them.Goodbye my little one. I do hope you will see Sir Ian &Peter - & I only wish they were both staying on.All my love to you always.Ever your very loving old,Will.