Author: Cecil F Thursby Date: 23 June 1917 Nationality: British Text: 23-6-1917. H.MS. TriadMy dear BirdwoodI must write you a line to congratulateyouon your K.C.B. a very tardy and inadequatereward for all your splendid services andrecognition of the magnificent fighting done by theAnzacs under your command _ All yourold friends out here are delighted and none moreso than myself and I hope there are many morehonors to come to you. I see at present there is rathera lull in the fighting on your front but I gather itis only the calm before the storm and that it wontbe long before you are ready for another advance.Out here we have practically handed every thing overto the French. They are now supreme in Greece andare talking & writing as if they had occupied an Enemy'scountry after a Glorious Campaign - As far as we areconcerned we go on much as usual except that this Enemyis getting more aggressive - They have mounted largeguns all round their coast, are laying mines off all their own ports as well as off our bases andhave largely increased their air craft. We are alwaysbusy and have a small scrap some where nearly every daySubmarines have increased also & seem to pop up nearlyevery where - I am sorry to say they got one of myJapanese Destroyers the other day killing 55 of her crew -Personally I seem to be going down hill just now asWemyss has been appointed over my head to be C in. CMediterranean so I dont suppose they will keep meout here much longer as we are both about the sameseniority and I am afraid that with the presentboard there isnt much likelihood of my getting anothercommand - However I cannot complain as I havehad my flag flying ever since the war began.The hot weather is just beginning now and theFever season set in which means that all ouroperations on the Salonica front must stop for the presentbut I hope in the Autumn the Russians & Roumaniansmay be able to do some thing & enable us to get inagain - My kindest remembrances to all oldAnzac friends _ Yours very sincerely,Cecil. F. Thursby.