Author: William Birdwood Date: 21 December 1915. Location: Dardanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: SPECIAL ORDER OF THE DAY. GENERAL HEADQUARTERS, 21ST DECEMBER, 1915. The Commander-in-Chief desires to express to all ranks in theDardanelles Army his unreserved appreciation of the way in which the recentoperations, ending in the evacuation of the ANZAC and SUVLA positions, have beencarried to an issue successful beyond his hopes. The arrangements made for withdrawal,and for keeping the enemy in ignorance of the operation which was taking place, couldnot have been improved. The General Officer Commanding Dardanelles Army, andthe General Officers Commanding the Australian and New Zealand and 9th ArmyCorps, may pride themselves on an achievement without parallel in the annals of war.The Army and Corps Staffs, Divisional and subordinate Commanders and their Staffs,and the Naval and Military Beach Staffs, proved themselves more than equal to themost difficult task which could have been thrown upon them. Regimental officers,non-commissioned officers and men carried out, without a hitch, the most tryingoperation which soldiers can be called upon to undertakea withdrawal in the face ofthe enemyin a manner reflecting the highest credit on the discipline and soldierlyqualities of the troops.It is no exaggeration to call this achievement one withoutparallel. To disengage and to withdraw from a bold and active enemy is the mostdifficult of all military operations; and in this case the withdrawal was effected bysurprise, with the opposing forces at close gripsin many cases within a few yards ofeach other. Such an operation, when succeeded by a re-embarkation from an openbeach, is one for which military history contains no precedent.During the past months the troops of Great Britain and Ireland,Australia and New Zealand, Newfoundland and India, fighting side by side, have invariablyproved their superiority over the enemy, have contained the best fighting troopsin the Ottoman Army in their front, and have prevented the Germans from employingtheir Turkish allies against us elsewhere.No soldier relishes undertaking a withdrawal from before theenemy. It is hard to leave behind the graves of good comrades, and to relinquishpositions so hardly won and so gallantly maintained as those we have left. But allranks in the Dardanelles Army will realize that in this matter they were but carryingout the orders of His Majesty's Government, so that they might in due course be moreusefully employed in fighting elsewhere for their King, their Country, and the Empire.There is only one considerationwhat is best for the furtheranceof the common cause. In that spirit the withdrawal was carried out, and in that spiritthe Australian and New Zealand and the 9th Army Corps have proved, and will continueto prove, themselves second to none as soldiers of the Empire. A. LYNDEN BELL, MAJOR GENERAL,Chief of the General Staff,Mediterranean Expeditionary Force.The following telegrams are published for information: (1) FROM HIS MAJESTY THE KING. It gives me the greatest satisfaction to hear of the successfulevacuation of SUVLA and ANZAC without loss of troops or guns. Please convey toGeneral Birdwood and those under his command my congratulations upon the ablemanner in which they have carried out so difficult an operation.20-12-15.GEORGE, R.I. (2) TO HIS MAJESTY THE KING. I have communicated your Majesty's gracious message to GeneralBirdwood and the Dardanelles Army. In their behalf and my own I beg to giveexpression to the deep gratification felt by all ranks at your Majesty's encouraging wordsof congratulation. The troops are only inspired by a desire to be employed again assoon as possible wherever their services may be used to best advantage against yourMajesty's enemies.SIR CHARLES MONRO,C.-in-C., M.E.F. 21-12-15. (3) FROM THE SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WAR. H.M. Government received your news with the greatest pleasureand wish immediately to express to you and all under your command their highappreciation of the excellence of the arrangements for the withdrawal from ANZACand SUVLA and their warm admiration for the conduct of the troops in carrying outthe most difficult operation of war. They appreciate as fully the effective help whichAdmiral Wemyss and the Navy as well as General Birdwood and the Corps and othercommanders afforded you. The thanks of the Government for this fine achievementare due to you and to all concerned, and I wish also to congratulate you personally.20-12-15.[* I had todo thisentirelyon my own