Author: William Birdwood Date: 15 January 1916 Location: Salonika Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: H.M.S. Lord Nelson.Salonika.15 January 1916.My own darling Jenny Jane.Still no letters of any sort & as I wrote last,I have had nothing since 30th November!! I can only hope &imagine that I shall find a whole sack full of letters awaitingme when I get down to Egypt. Having received no orders aboutmyself & as all my troops were being got off I have run over herewith dear old Admiral de Robeck, as I thought I might justas well see our position here while in these parts, as one neverknows if I may or may not have to come up here again -but I doubt it. Now I have got my orders which arethat my Dardanelles Army of 3 Army Corps which I havehad since Sir Ian left is now to be broken up & mergedinto one Army in Egypt & I go back to my AustralianArmy Corps. I shall be absolutely happy with this &quite glad to be back with them all again. They have allgone on ahead of me to Egypt & I shall find them all there.I am only sorry for poor General Godley whom I shall have todisplace & he will have to revert to the command of hisDivision - he is such a good fellow that I am quitesorry to have to do this - but so many more Australiantroops are coming over that I daresay I'll be ableto have an Australian Army before long in whichcase he can have a Corps again. I don't quiteknow where we will be in Egypt, but I rather fancy my Corps will be at Tel-el Kabir, and I shallbe glad to be out of Cairo. I gather I'll be directlyunder General Murray who has taken Munro's place. Irather think Lord K. would have liked me to continueto command my Army, but that they had to find aplace for Murray on his being relieved as ChiefGeneral Staff at the War Office.It is a wonderful place this & I'm glad to have seenit. I have brought Col. Wagstaff here with me &General Mahon who is commanding here has been ridinground the position with us - it is a very strong one &I should love to see it being attacked as we ought toaccount for many Germans!After Anzac the town itself seems palatial & it is quitestrange to find a General living in a comfortable furnishedhouse! The town looks really pretty from the sea,running up as it does from the shore all up the sideof a big hill finishing up with old city walls all roundand an old castle on top. On close acquaintance thoughit of course appears very squalid - a few large wellkept roads well lighted & with electric trams - butdirectly you leave there you get to the miserablebadly kept lanes just like an Indian village.We went & saw a rather fine Greek Church - which had I believe originally been built as aChristian Church in the time of the Byzantine Empire.Then when the Turks came, it was converted into aMosque & so remained until the Greeks took Salonicafrom the Turks 3 years ago & it is now again a Church -& a fine one with a lovely huge dome. The Turks hadwhitewashed over all the old mosaics, but these arenow being recovered. The Greeks though are a miserablelot & do nothing. We happened to land on the bigday of the year - 14th Jan - their (& Russia's) New Year'sday. The streets were all crowded & Greek troops marchingthrough the town for a big parade. Officers with wonderfulblue & white feathers in their hats & mounted on small ponies -men all right, but not well booted - & certainly not fit formuch hard work in the hills unless they have much betterboots in their stores.The streets altogether are a wonderful sight. British,French, Greek & Servian soldiers everywhere, & it seems soodd to see our own men walking about & driving their cartsabout the place, all mixed up with the other nationalities- and all getting on well together. The Greekshad a very large force here, but have withdrawn nearly allthese & now have only one Division.The Admiral & I went to call on poor old KingPeter of Servia yesterday - poor old man I feel very sorry for him, driven out of his country as he has beenwith all that remains of his Army - it is some of thesewho are here & fine stolid fellows they seem to be.Genl. Sarail who commands the French is also C-in-Chere & has our troops under him - a very fine looking fellowwith blue eyes & white hair. He dined here, & I calledon him yesterday - today I have to go & have djeunerwith him &hope it may be not be a huge feast.Unfortunately he doesn't speak a word of English. He isevidently a man quite prepared to act on his ownresponsibility which is a great thing, as two days agohe sent in some of his engineers & blew up a big railwaybridge some miles off which cuts off the Bulgars fromattacking here. I fancy the Greek Govt. must bevery angry about it, but are helpless.Cold - my goodness isn't it just cold here! Thefirst ride I went on with Genl. Mahon & the AdmiralI thought I should never get my hands and feet warm & therewas such a bracing wind blowing through one. In spiteof this our troops here are extraordinarily fit as theweather is so bracing. Today it is snowing & horriblycold & uncomfortable. To my astonishment I found Col.Cox Cooke of the 32nd in command of a Brigade here &I fancy doing very well in all the Pioneer work which is what they are doing here entirely in theway of making roads, digging trenches etc. Itried to see Cooke, but he was out when I went tohis Brigade.I enclose a very nice telegram Lord K. forwarded me fromGenl. Joffre which you may like to see & keep - it wasnice of him writing to me. I much fear my littleGenl. Brulard wants to kiss me before I leave! Hehas sent to say that he has now received from Francethe Star of the Legion of Honour for me & that he isparticularly anxious to give me this personally - part of thisceremony is I believe being kissed, so I am anxiousto have it presented as privately as possible - thoughI fear he wants a parade!I enclose a copy of a rather divine little poem someone made out on the night we evacuated Helles. AGeneral Maude wouldn't hurry up & insisted onbringing on a valise with him, while a GeneralLawrence (Lorenzo) who was commanding the rear guard wasfuming at being kept waiting - especially as hewas a very bad sailor & dreading the sea when heembarked - & this was getting worse every minute!18th I am finishing this on board the cruiser 'Chatham'on my way to Egypt. Admiral de Robeck has givenher to me to do down in - a nice boat but she shakes like anything & writing is difficult - however Iknow I'll be overwhelmed with work & letters directly Ireach Egypt, so I'll post this when I get there. I had anothernice ride around Salonika before we left - just like homeand in places we were riding over lovely downs & through6 or 7 inches of snow. All round our trenches was a good footof snow but the men all seemed fit &cheery. It iscertainly a much nicer country than Egypt, & they all seem tolike it. Then I returned to Mudros on Lord Nelson to findGenl. Brulard had arranged a farewell parade of all theFrench troops there for me & to present me with the Frenchdecorations. It really was quite affecting as the littleman seemed to feel it sincerely - my kindness to them &my going. After going round the troops we formed up in asquare when he made a most impassioned speech & thendecorated me - followed by kissing!!! I had alwaysthought the French kiss on such occasions was merely aformal "peck" on one's cheek, but he literally fell on mychest & embraced me & gave me 2 enormous kisses oneither cheek, with tears rolling down his cheeks!It really was awfully nice of him & I felt perhapsI ought to have been able to rise to the same! As itwas I made him a short reply of thanks. Later heinvested a lot of other officers & men with lowerorders & gave each of them a quiet kiss! Wasn'tall the men, but I think he did the officers. Amongthe latter was Genl. Cunliffe Owen my R.A. General who is just off for short leave home. If I see himbefore he goes I will get him to take with him bymy French decorations for him to keep till I returnas I don't want to risk losing them out here - hegot one too on my recommendation - (ship rolling& shaking a lot). Brulard had me escorted off theparade by Chasseurs d'Afrique, so went out of theway to do me all the honours he could, & I amquite sorry to leave the little man. Mind yousend me that cigarette holder for him, as Iknow how touched he will be to get it. Ihave asked for an English decoration for him.After parade we went back to "Lord Nelson" when Isaid goodbye to the Admiral &went came on board'Chatham' to find quite to my surprise furtherhonours. The Admiral had ordered her to insteadof steaming right away to steam slowly round the fleet - all the decks of the battleshipswere manned for me & they cheered as wepassed, & finally on passing the flag ship aftercheering me, the band played "Auld Lang Syne" -wasn't it awfully nice of them - an honour Ifancy very seldom paid to a soldier & I feltit very much. I could only shout out my thanks through a megaphone as we clearedoff. And so ends this chapter of our fighting.What I wonder is before us in Egypt? AndI expect we will all be in France in April.The close association with the Navy duringthis brief war has been an experience of whichI'll always be glad, for it so seldom comesin the way of any soldier. My first 30 yearsservice, I have not known the Navy or its ways at all, while in this last war I have seenso much of them & have been on really dozens oftheir ships - battleships, cruisers & destroyers.I've had a nice time on all of them & mademany good friends especially Admirals de Robeck& Thursby.By the bye do see if you can get a copy ofa small poem by Kipling "If". It is onlyabout 4 or 5 verses all & I fancy you can getit in a form to frame & hang up. If so doget it & give it to Chris to hang up near hislooking glass & he can see it every morning whendressing - it is excellent & I saw one of theofficers on Lord Nelson had it, & liked it so much.Also look out for the 'Anzac Magazine' whenit comes out as it will do in Feb or March.It will be quite good & has been written by men at Anzac & I have written a short introductionfor it. Be sure to send me 3 or 4copies of it, as I want to send them to men to menlike de Robeck & Thursby who will I knowlike them.Genl. Skene has just rejoined me & given melatest news of you! He says he just missedyou at the Anzac buffet, but heard you werelooking exceedingly well & gave me a mostmagnificent "swop" for you!! He heard of anAustralian who after seeing you had said "Heknew Genl B wood &liked him very much &he was a good friend of his, but he couldn'twell forgive him for going & marryingquite a young girl like you"!!!!That after seeing you at the buffet! - Goodbyemy own little one &all my love. Ever your very loving old, Will.