Author: William BirdwoodDate: 6 October 1915 Nationality: Australian Text: My own little girl.There is certainly something still very extraordinarywith these posts. I got just a very short note of yours dated 15Sept saying you had written me earlier in the week. The onlyletter before that was of the 4th - so you are sure to have writtenin the interval, but nothing has come. It may still do soa week hence! and in the mean time I have just been veryglad to get yours of 20th. I am glad Chris spent a fewdays at Packwood as the Bradshaws are so very nice & it isnice to think that he remembers them so kindly & is stillglad to go there & be with them- it is a good trait. Iam sure he is a dear good boy. I was writing to MrRintoul lately. Chris could I fancy go up for Sandhurstnext July, but if he is still very young & unfussed. I amnot at all sure that it would not be better forhim to wait six months longer at Clifton & go upthe following December. It is too early to decidenow, as it must partially depend on how thewar goes on, but I am not at all sure thatthis would not be best for him in the longrun - I fancy J has selected an excellentplace in Sherbourne- It is a school they love of which I have always heard well spoken of, &I fancy it is very nice country all round there& very healthy, so let us hope poor Georgie will dowell there. I fear she must be very unsettledwith Percy gone off. I am thankful he has notcome over here with his Regt, as all the Officersof those Regts seem to get killed here! The numbers Ihave lost from both the New Army & TerritorialDivisions is really awful - and there seems to be noreplacing them. I have some Regts with only 3 or 4Officers in them & possibly useless ones at that!Percy I fancy may have been in all this recenthard fighting in France & I do hope he may havecome through it safely. I fancy re-employmentmust have been a tremendous joy to him, afterso many idle months with no object inlife.I have just been on board the hospital ship"Rewa". The old Captain was awfully nice &asked after you so kindly, rememberingyou well from having travelled on her. I was on her before about six weeks ago, &you will be glad to hear that the Doctor incharge told me he wouldn't have known me forthe same man - that I was then a scare-crow aboutwhom they were all very anxious, and that I hadsince put on at least 1 stone in weight. Whilesome big London Doctor who was on board toldde Crespigny as we were leaving that I "wasthe first General he had met out here who didn'tseem to have one foot in the grave"!! So yousee little one, you needn't worry very muchabout my health now!!Chris hasn't yet sent me - nor have I seen - thepictures you tell me of in the Daily Mail,Union etc - & which I fear sound terriblyridiculous & inclined to make me feel sucha fool. Do you remember Capt. Aspinall inSimla? He is now here on the Staff andrecently got a Brevet. These wretchedpapers had a picture of his wife with two or three small children underneath "allvery pleased at Daddy's Brevet"!! PoorAspinall has never heard the end of it.I have at last been able to get some small amountof information for poor Punch which I enclose.These two papers should at all events be sufficientto enable her to claim any pension to which shemay be entitled & I do hope she may be able tosettle things up all right - and I trust to getto some a pension which may be of some use toher.Frank Birdwood told me to you had been writing tohim about some rent for Dalkeith House & I amso glad to think that we have at all events gotsomething - for I really never expected to getanything! Once the tenant has paid off what heexpended on repairs, you will get more rent.Will you please look up your pass book & seeif I have been credited with about 50from the India Office - for It is for some allowanceswhich I should have got in Egypt, but which have only recently arrived & the paypeople tell me have been credited to my acc. athome instead of here, so be sure to tell me if thisis the case.I told you I think that poor Skeen had been invalidedwith enteric - he is at Malta & I hear going on quitefavourably, but apparently it is certain that hewill have to go home, so will probably not rejoin mefor months to come. I have been very lucky in gettingsuch a really nice fellow in a Col. White tosucceed him - he is an Australian & an exceptionalone - As nice & able a fellow as I have ever met& it is a real pleasure having him on my Staff.Genl. Williams has now left me on promotion toEngineer in Chief on Sir Ian's Staff and Ihave got Col Lesslie in his place. He is sucha dear fellow - always so hard working, keenand faithful, and I am so glad that thismeans a good step up for him. Butwho is to succeed him I do not quiteknow. I shall ask for Walter Norman, but fear there is little chance of getting him.Lord K's speech in the House of Lords wascertainly very nice & I am only afraid that thetroops will be getting a bit jealous of myAustralians, though the latter really are sovery good indeed that, as far as we areconcerned here, they do stand out & certainlydid so in the actions Lord K spoke about. Ihave had his speech published in orders fortheir information.That Primitive Gas Co: notice probably meansthat no dividends will be paid on ordinaryshares, but I fancy they will be so on preferenceones, which draw less dividends ordinarilybut go on being paid irrespective of anythingelse if the Company can pay. I forget how manyof each I have - in any case there is nothingto be done about it.All Chelien dividends are paid into theAlliance Bank & I have asked Sir A. Ken to invest any balance we may havethere. I don't fancy it can be much afterpaying rent of Somerleyton & sums remitted homeby the Bank after they ceased to draw mypay in Dec, January & February - though Bob haspaid in 2000 odd as part of poor Dick'sestate.Frank told me a certain amount about the Zeppelinraid in London. He is employed in connection withthe Anti air Craft guns at the Admiralty. Itseems extraordinary that our aeroplanes should not beable to deal with these ships. I am sure thatere long we shall be able to do so. I am rathera believer in Sir Percy Scott & I hope he willbe able to arrange for some real surprise forthem.Goodbye my own little lamb & all my loveto you - Ever your very loving old,Will.