Author: William Birdwood Date: 5 August 1916 Nationality: Australian. Text: 5 August 1916FridayMy own darling girl. I'd far rather Nancy should remain on atHarefield & I hope she will do so quite contentedly& happily. My reasons are - I feel that the Harefieldpeople & all the Australians would be reallyquite hurt if she left there. I am sure they lookupon her as one of themselves by now, are very proud proudtoo she is there, while any of the men here whoknow about it, also appreciate it, and I amsure that none of them would like to think shehad gone - and that too to another hospital. Theywould not understand the difference in thedifferent class of work she could do there &what she now does - and while I am headof the Australians I like to think of her being there &helping our men. Then too, supposing thenursing didn't suit her, or for any reason shedidn't get on with Mrs D. she would have to leaveit & couldn't return to Harefield. And is shestrong enough to stand the really heavy strain ofnursing? Also I don't much care to beunder any sort of obligation in the matter &for Nancy to go there more or less "as a favour"?If they couldn't stretch a point & take herat first - that was an end to it - and Idon't care to think of her going now &checking what she is doing. "Shoemakerstick to your last", is as true now asever. I am not unmindful of little Nancy in this. I know she must have a dull time ofit at Harefield & I am so pleased with her atthe way she has stuck to it & admire her verymuch for it. She might think it would benice "fun" to go to Mrs. D - but I think that isvery unlikely - the novelty would I am surebe enjoyable to her at first - but when thatwas over, there could be little more from themat Harefield - So I think you mightwrite and say. I think she can not throwover the Australians who were so kind intaking her in when this hospital wasstarted & that I wish her to remain withit. Nancy will I am sure understand this herself & tell her I do hope she will not bedisappointed about it - & I know she willwishto stick to the Australians while I do so!I think too is she is too young for real nursing.You needn't worry about our not holding Pozires. Wehave had a real hard time of it there, with continualbombardments through which it is wonderful that anyone lives - but I am glad to say that as I writewe are advancing beyond it & taking all theGerman trenches above it. All the Germanstrong second line trenches ran behindthe village which was is a little way down thehill side on our side of the ridge, so thetaking of the village was not really so difficult as the taking of the ridge & trenchesbeyond it which we are attacking at the presentmoment with an absolute war of artillery - &about which I feet quite confident.Saturday morning. The attack has panned out all right.I was writing to you up to about mid night last nightwhile it was going on hard - & by this morning wehad taken all the trenches we wanted & nowhold the whole crest originally held by theGermans. They evidently don't like it a bitas they have already counter attacked twice& have been driven off with heavy loss. They willcertainly do so again, but I do not feelvery apprehensive, and I'm sure we will hold our own comfortably - but, of course my troopsup there are very tired & I must start relievingthem today, as some of them have probably had nosleep for a long time. I haven't yet got full details,but up to now I know of at least 500 Germanprisoners taken, & I hope for more - but I fear noguns, beyond maxims. However it is quite asbig & good a thing as has been done here forsome little time. From what I see in the papers about petrol difficultiesI fancy it is just as well you were not able toget a car! I see the Archbishop of York is onlyallowed to buy 20 gallons of petrol as a maximum -with no assurance that he will get even halfas much as that during the month - and that to visit his whole diocese. You might well have foundyourself unable to buy any, As I fear we wouldn'thave been able to show any duty necessity - whichwould have been rather a sell! I am so gladyou have quite a comfy trap & do hope itwill do you well & hope your Father's new horse willbe satisfactory.But I am so distressed my little one, to hear youare sleeping so badly again. You simply mustget over this. Remember there is nothing whateverto worry about. It is I know the thinkingabout it which makes one not sleep. I knowit is very easy to say this but I can'tthink why in the quiet of Thurlby, you didn't sleep all night - try to think as littleabout it as you possibly can - if only theGerman Emperor was dead, it might bequite all right - but really you need notworry about anything - & especially about notsleeping. So for my sake do sleep myown little one & all my love to you.Ever your very loving old, Will.