Author: J T Maude Date: 16 October 1917 Nationality: British Text: General Headquarters.Mesopotamian Expeditionary Force.16th October, 1917.My dear friendI wrote to acknowledge your last letter to me onSeptember 5th and to give you any scraps of news that wemay have here. But I hear now that the ship which wasconveying our letters written about that date has beenburnt at sea and therefore my missive alll not reach you.We have been fairly grilled this summer, and especiallyin July there was a very severe heat wave which carried offquite a large number even of the strongest. But that is allnow past history and the weather is becoming daily coolerand more enjoyable, and we shall soon have an almost perfectclimate till the rains come.In consequence of the great heat operations weregenerally speaking impossible during the summer months,although we had to read just from time to time owing to theRussian vagaries and at first the Arab tribesmen weretroublesome and had to be punished. So the troops wereable to have a rest which they had well earned after alltheir strenuous work last winter, and by settling them downInto camps in good time we avoided much of the sicknesswhich we had last year. In fact except for the heat wave inJuly when we had so many cases of heat stroke and heatexhaustion our sick list was extraordinarily low all throughthe summer and we have had no epidemics such as cholera,scurvy, plague, etc.But though the troops have been resting, behind theArmy and here at headquarters things have been busier ifpossible than before. There has been so much to reorganise,develop and prepare for the future, and especially as regards our inland water transport and railways work hasbeen most strenuous. A very low river has been somewhata source of anxiety but the way it has been tackled by theriver fleet has been little short of marvellous. The riveris now beautifully buoyed and groundings have been few andfar between, although we have had to lighten our barges toaccommodate them to the amount of water in the river. Thenthe railways too have gone ahead like wildfire and the waythat all have worked through this intense heat has been mostpraiseworthy. The benefits which have accrued to the Armyin consequence are obvious.Here at Headquarters we have had an immensity to do,first taking in hand Baghdad both from the civil and militaryaspect, then getting things straight behind, then reorganisingthe troops and arranging for new formations, then systematisingthe supplies throughout the country - and in connection withthis we have placed a large area under cultivation which oughtto supply us with all the grain and forage which we requirenext year. It meant a big outlay but it was a good businesslikeproposition and the relief to the Empire and to ourcommunications inasmuch as we shall be self-supporting inthis respect is obvious. It took some time to get sanctionfor the scheme and so I went ahead on my own responsibilityand belated sanction came eventually. Then plans for thefuture have been absorbing one's interest, for and though thetroops were resting we have had to get a certain amount ofwork out of them during the summer months. First of all Iwent round all the fronts and we designed a multitude ofstrong positions which we shall be able to use as pivotsduring the forthcoming operations. The troops worked onthose during the evenings and early mornings and at nightduring the great heat so as to keep them fit, and now I havebeen round them all and they are very strong.Wegot a considerable number of all ranks off to Indiaduring the summer on leave and this has helped to keep upthe efficiency of the Force considerably, especially in thecase of those who have been on service a long time and whoneeded a rest and change. Then the troops too during thesummer seemed quite different to last year, when they couldhardly put one foot before the other. This year they werecheery and full of spirits all the time and games andrecreations of all sorts continued throughout the summer.Football competitions, fishing, athletic sports, cinemas,concert parties, etc. all helped all helped to keep themamused and interested, and they are now in tearing spiritsand ready for anything.The other day we began our second innings successfullyby an attack on the Turkish troops at Ramadie, where we gotthe whole lot, only a few escaping by swimming the river.It was a big success and the troops were splendidly handled.It meant a lot of preparation as Ramadie is 70 miles fromBaghdad and communications are vile, but we had been workingat it for a long time getting everything ready and ourexertions were amply repaid, for we surrounded the wholeforce, and this initial success is bound to have a good effecton the forthcoming operations. Altogether we got 13 guns,12 Machine guns, and some 3,400 prisoners, besides masses ofammunition, arms, equipment, railway material, engineeringstores, 2 1aunches, 2 barges, etc., etc.I was much interested in all you told me about your owndoings in France, and I can assure you that we watch yourmovements with very great interest here. Lately you seem tohave been doing splendidly and what is so satisfactory isthat it is always a record of progress, even though slight,and this must in time wear down the enemy and make him feelthat it is a hopeless task.The Russians here go from bad to worse and we havehad at last to make up our minds not to depend on themfor anything. I tried up to the last moment to get themto come in even with a small portion of their force anddo something, but I am afraid that however much they maywish to do so they are quite incapable of any effort.It is very unsatisfactory, for I feel that if they hadonly come along last spring or even if now they wouldmake a strong offensive we should very soon bring thiscampaign to an end.We are looking forward to hearing good news fromGaza before long, where they must be about due now tomake a move.Yrs sincerely,J.T. MaudeMaudeToLieut.-General Sir W.R. Birdwood,K.C.S.I., K.C.M.C,. C.B., C.I.E., D.S.0.,Commanding 1st Anzac Corps,British Army in the Field,FRANCE.