Author: William Birdwood Date: 20 December 1915. Location: Dardanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Headquarters, Dardanelles Army, M.E.F. 20th December, 1915. I wrote to you last week in a natural state ofconsiderable anxiety about our evacuation, but I think I saidthat I felt fairly confident of being able to carry it offsuccessfully provided the weather did not play me false, andthe Navy could produce the necessary small craft. I never,however, dared to hope that we could possibly meet with thesuccess we did, and none of us can ever be sufficientlygrateful to Providence for seeing us through as was done.The weather was absolutely perfect. Two perfectly quiet, calmnights, with no wind, and I am thankful to say a certain amountof cloud to dim the strong moon. This saved the Navy from allanxiety as regards their boats being knocked about, hence wewere able to work with complete confidence of success. The first night of my final stage was of courseno trouble, for though I got rid of 10,000 men in each Corpsthat night, it left me with 10,000 men in each to hold therespective areas for the remaining twenty four hours. What Imost feared was a big storm coming on when I was short ofstrength, so you can imagine how thankful I now feel. Icarried out exactly the programme I had always intended,spending the last day but one in making all final arrangementsat Suvla - cruising up and down the coast that night in adestroyer - spending my very last day on the peninsula at mybeloved "Anzac," and going round for the last time the trenchesmade by the Division which first landed with us - then thefinal night on board the "Chatham" with Weymss. My last day there was, as I am sure you will believe really a trying one, as I very much felt leaving theplace, and I could see that a great many men did the same,though when I explained it was only to enable us to put inmore useful work against the enemy elsewhere, they were I thinkquite satisfied. You can imagine how anxious we all were on thevery last night. Things at Suvla were quiet practicallythroughout the night, but I was a little disturbed when therewas a good deal of firing off and on at "Anzac," at one timealmost threatening an attack, but I was thankful that therewas very little shelling. The Naval arrangements I may mentionwere absolutely perfect, and without any hitch of any sort.Boats all came in at the appointed times at their proper places.The last big lot, holding the front trenches all round from theright of "Anzac" to the left of Suvla, were divided into threesections, who gradually withdrew through each other in turn,until very small parties were left covering the actual piers,and they, too, got quickly down on board and left. At timesconstant heavy firing made me anxious up to the end, as it wasimpossible to tell how much of this was being opened from theTurks' trenches, or how much the Turks had found out and werefollowing on.You will probably remember that some months ago Istarted making several really big tunnels under the enemy'spositions, with the idea of sapping forward and having some verybig blow-ups under more than one of their main trenches. I hadcaused a tunnel under one of the most important of these, viz.Russell's Top, to be pushed on rapidly during the last fortnight,and this we charged with several hundred pounds of ammonal inthree separate mines, which I ordered to be exploded at intervalsof two minutes. When the rear party were well away, these werefired with complete success, a volcanic eruption being seen formiles around, and quite competing on a small scale with Vesuvius!The result was wonderful, in that the whole of the Turks,evidently anticipating a big attack, lined their trenches, andfor about an hour continued to fire away as fast as they couldpossibly load, meanwhile our men were well down on their way tothe beach in comfort. The results of this and many other ruses which weretried were so satisfactory, that it is hard to believe that wegot away the two Army Corps with only two men wounded! It reallyis almost incredible, for the Turks must have observed us for aweek beforehand making preparations, for though we naturallytried all we could to conceal these, yet the nights were fairlylight, and it was impossible to hide everything. I must saythe men were perfectly wonderful, and no praise can be too highfor the way they entered into it as an adventure quite aftertheir own hearts, and this not only applies to my Australiansand New Zealanders, but I know that the troops on my left werejust the same. There was an absolute struggle with the meninsisting to be with the final rearguard party, and they weremost indignant on being told that they must get on, and that therearguard was following, as each man seemed to claim that it washis special right to be with it to the very end. With a spiritlike this, you will realise how easy matters were. We wrapped up all the men's feet in old sacking andblankets, so that there was not a sound made as they left thetrenches. In a few places most cunning devices had been made byfastening a rifle on to the parapet, and firing it by a weightarranged with a tin full of water and a hole bored in it, whichcould be timed to drop and pull the trigger at any given numberof minutes after the trenches had been vacated. Several otherdodges of the same sort were devised, such as candles burning foran inch or so, and then reaching a firework which exploded witha loud report. The results of them all were evidently satisfactory,for the Turks never seemed to discover that we were off.When the mine was fired, they kept up their continuous fire onour trenches for a good hour after we had actually left theshore, which the last man did at about 4.30 a.m. Later on stillthey began to bombard our whole (now deserted) position, and atnine o'clock in the morning, they seemed to turn every gun theypossessed on to the trenches, so it is at all events somesatisfaction to know that they have got through and wasted agreat deal of ammunition. Our mine must have accounted for areally large number of them, as it spread right into the middleof one of their positions covering two or three trenches. During the preliminary stage of about a week, wehad dribbled off nearly everything of value we possessed, andthe last day I went round, I could find practically no ordnanceor engineer stores left, while we evacuated nearly the whole ofour animals, leaving I think fifty only at "Anzac" out of atotal of some 6,000 between the two Corps. Guns had of coursebeen dribbled off gradually, every battery being reduced, firstto a section, and then to a single gun with lots of ammunitionfor it, and finally single guns were dribbled off. We had 200guns originally, and of these Suvla got off the whole of their90, while "Anzac" evacuated one hundred of their total of onehundred and seven, the seven remaining being completely blown topieces. I am bound to confess that Suvla managed theirevacuation in material far better than we at "Anzac," thoughas you will remember, their facilities were very much greater,for they have more piers, and their transports could stand rightin close to the piers in Suvla Bay, while at "Anzac" the lightershave to go a long way out to sea. Also, I must confess thatSuvla took a real flying start! You will remember that we hadorders to commence evacuating, when both Corps started makingpreliminary arrangements - then came an idea of thepossibility of our not going, when I had to tell both Corpsto sit tight for a bit, and in fact to put in more suppliesfor themselves. I have a shrewd suspicion that Suvla did nottake much notice of this, but went on getting rid of stuff,and as it so happens this has turned out all right. Byngorganised the destruction of the stores he left behind verywell indeed, and it was a wonderful sight to see at the lastmoment, as if by a wave of the magician's wand, the whole ofhis surplus stores suddenly bursting into flame, and forminghuge bonfires. At "Anzac," I am sorry to say this was notdone, and the enemy must have got a certain amount of food,though nothing that would last them for more than a few days,and of course not of any great value. Yesterday afternoon, to take the Turks' attentionoff the Northern zone, I made Davies organise a fairly bigattack on the Turks' trenches at Helles, where we had atremendous bombardment by the Navy, which I think created amost sucessful diversion, for three or four monitors and twocruisers were down there, hammering in as hard as they wereworth with their big guns, and attracting the whole attentionof the peninsula to them. The attacks made were quitesuccessful, and we took two or three Turkish trenches. It may be that we got away just about the righttime, for when I was going round "Anzac" yesterday, the Turkssuddenly opened on us with new, very big howitzers, firingsome excellently made, clean cut, steel shells of about teninches in diameter. It is quite possible that these were theAustrian howitzers, which we had heard about, and that theywere just registering our positions before starting a bigbombardment. In the course of about an hour, they put in 50of these big shells along the trenches, and though I believenoone was hurt, yet they seem to fall all round, and I gotcovered with mud from one that came a bit nearer than usual.To show how little the Turks suspected our going,deserters came in even up to the very night before we left,and the tremendous shelling they gave directly we had gonelooked as if they could hardly believe we had cleared out.When you come to think that in a great many places our trenchesare not more than twenty five yards apart, it certainly is awonderful credit to the men that they should have been able toslip away as they did, and I think shews a very high state ofdiscipline which is altogether praiseworthy. You can imaginewhat a weight seems to have rolled off one's shoulders, when Igot back here early this morning, and realised the astoundinglygood fortune we had had, when a piece of bad fortune might haveresulted in terribly heavy losses.It is not, too, as if the Turks had reduced theirnumbers in front of us, for we calculate that in the trenchesfacing the "Anzac" and Suvla corps, with their supports and purelylocal reserves, there were approximately 80,000 Turks and a greatmany guns of all calibres, and I should imagine the higher Germanofficers on the spot will come in for some well-deserved abuse,when it is known that they have allowed us to slip away from sucha difficult position through /what one might call the narrowest possibleof bottle necks, (viz. one or two temporary piers) without7 being ableto do us any damage. It was extraordinary, too, that they had notthe enterprise to push forward at once to find out the situationthemselves, instead of allowing the whole of their heavy and lightartillery to carry out a continuous, organised bombardment as theydid on our evacuated position.Our intentions, too, should have been obvious to them,looking down as they do from the hills around on practically allour movements. As you know, not a single lighter can leaveour beaches without being seen, and though we of courseconfined movements to the night as much as possible, yet acertain amount of craft was necessarily seen moving about inthe daytime. Curiously enough, they seem all along to haveanticipated that we were making arrangements for an attack,and not a retirement. The attack we did carry out on theirposition at Helles about eight hours before we commenced thewithdrawal from the other areas, may perhaps have deceivedthem more than I thought probable, as we know that they at oncereinforced down there when the attack began.You know how I have all along hated the idea ofleaving "Anzac," and all the wonderful work done there by mymen, but it is at all events some consolation to realise wehave been able to do this without any loss whatever, while wecertainly must have inflicted a considerable amount on theTurks, even if only in the explosion of the mines at Russell'sTop, which as I have said were right under several of theirtrenches, which were evidently fully manned at the time, asimmediately to right and left rolls of musketry fire wereopened from men apparently at quite close intervals, so it isreasonable to suppose that they were manned like this throughout.Then, again, I have just had reports that late thisafternoon large numbers of Turks came swarming over, seeing Isuppose what loot they could get hold of that had been leftbehind, when the cruisers and destroyers, who had of courseremained off the coast, put heavy fire into them, and say theyaccounted for large numbers.Aspinall, who has practically represented my GeneralStaff throughout all this, and MacMunn, who is now my D.A. andQ.M.G., have both played up capitally, and have done really well,while Monro has been extremely good in leaving me an entirelyfree hand.Now I feel that the only thing I want at the presentmoment is a really long sleep, as I have not had more than anhour in the last fortyeight.Before closing, I should just like to mention thatthe whole of the success of this operation is due entirely to theCorps Commanders - Byng and Godley, and their staffs, who made allarrangements most excellently, and left me really little ornothing to do beyond perhaps a suggestion here or a word ofencouragement there during my practically daily visits to theirpositions, while the co-operation of Davies in his attack fromHelles was as wholehearted as you would expect. (S'gd) W. R. Birdwood. P.S. (21st) More than ever do I realise how entirely we have tothank Providence for evacuating successfully as we have done. Areal South-westerly gale sprang up at about 1 a.m. today. Hadthis been 24 hours earlier, it would probably have caught us withsome six to eight thousand men still ashore, when getting offwould have been extremely difficult. I had given orders that onceembarkation had actually started on the final night, it was to becontinued whatever happened, the men if necessary having to wadeout up to their necks to be hauled into boats, but this would ofcourse have entailed not only considerable loss at the time, butso much delay that we could not possibly have got through everythingbefore daylight, when we should have come in for a bad timeof it. (It is indeed wonderful to look back on, and I trust I amsufficiently thankful.)To emphasise this, I may mention that my originalplans were to have had the final night of evacuation on the 20th/21st,but it was only about ten days ago that I found the Navy couldmanage to guarantee the collection of the necessary small craft 24hours earlier than we originally thought, when I put forward thedate by one day, which as you see has been of such wonderful andunforeseen consequence - though of course the putting it forwardwas entirely in view of taking advantage of the weather, which weknow must necessarily get worse daily at this time of the year. Will. also sent to Sir Ian Hamilton. This to me WB Evac of Anzac Private (To his Wife)