Author: William Birdwood Date: 21 November 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: 21 November 1915.H.M.S. LORD NELSON. My own darling Jenny Jane,There is a real slump inthe letter line & the last I have hadfrom you is dated 14 Oct - & now wehave just heard that one of thewretched German submarines hassunk one of our ships between here& Egypt, & that 2000 bags of mailshave gone down in her, so goodnessknows what may not have beenlost. It is most annoying - onewouldn't mind so much if youcould tell what had gone! I amagain beginning a letter from Mudros as Lord K. after spending a day atSalonika came back here& sent for me. This knocking about indestroyers is rather trying - In fineweather I don't mind it, but inrough one has an awful time of itas they never go less that 20 knots : &I have been in so many of them now- Colne,Chelmer - Ure - Usk - Ribble- Pincher-Bulldog - Beagle - Rattlesnake - Mosquito -Scourge - Lawford & Laforey : the last 2burn oil & go about 25 knots. The onlyreal bad journey I had was from here toMudros on Ribble. The saloons areabsolutely impossible - horrid closelittle places, with tiny scuttles alwaysshut & smelling! The moment one getsbelow one is done for in anything likebad weather - & the whole ship alwaysshakes fearfully. On deck it isall right if not rough, but if roughall the waves come over, so the bridgeis the only possible spot - that is veryhigh up, but even then one gets wavesconstantly dashing all over it as wasthe case last week. I tried to go over toAnzac the following day, but found thestorm had done so much damage inthe way of breaking up piers & boatsthat landing was not possible - a mostserious outlook with stores, gunstroops etc constantly to be landed &embarked. I must say I do hatebeing away from there & not havingmy own men round me daily. Theytell me a lot of very heavy shellinghas been going on on my beach &H.Q. Since I have been away thesefew days & I hope they haven't had many casualties. Lord K wasa day in Salonika & then cameback here & wired for me tocome & see him again - He onlystayed here a day & then went offdown to Athens where he is to havean interview today with thatwretched King Tino. I only hopehe may be able to frighten himproperly. The King's idea is Iam sure to remain nominallyneutral until a German Armyarrives on the Greek Frontier & hewill then be able to throw the cloakaside & join in against us. I hopetherefore that we may be able totake really strong measures at once which we can do with our fleet, for we could sink the wholeGreek fleet at once & blockade the coast & take all their islands. Ibelieve they have not a week's supply of food in the country, so ablockade might bring about a revolution and with Venizelos in againthey might decide to join us. The next day or so should let us seemore, & Lord K. will probably return here at once after his interview withTino - I am awfully sorry for poor old Admiral de Robeck in all this, ashe is such an awfully nice fellow, & has been so fearfully bothered withall his anxieties & responsibility that he hardly sleeps at all & I fear getsmore worried daily. I have been out for a couple of rides with him herewhich te we have both thoroughly enjoyed. The Cabinet have not at alldecided yet what is to be the future of this force & I shall not be surprisedat any orders I may get. I only know that we are bound to have a hard& difficult time of it whatever may be decided. There was one ratherattractive proposal made by which I was to have taken most of thisforce to cut the whole of the Turkish communications, but that hasnow been definitely abandoned. It has been nice seeing McMahon &Maxwell again & both have been very nice. I quite forget if I toldyou much about Lord K. I was so awfully glad to see him again& I think he really was pleased to have me with him again. Wealmost at once seemed to drop back into our old lines & the yearsI have been away from him might all have rolled away.Fitz too is so very nice & quite unchanged - he does K very wellindeed - much better than I had thought he would. Storrtoo was with him - a very good fellow, to whom you can alwayswrite if you want to know anything. I have given him a boxto send you, which I believe contains a practically priceless relic which has just been sent me as a present by AdmiralSir Hedworth (Lambton) Meux. Why he should have thoughtof sending it me I can't think as I hardly know him. TheCommodore here - Keyes - who has just been home brought this backwith him. The rich old Lady Meux apparently had a very valuablecollection of greenstone among which was this Maori totem - youwill see it is not beautiful & you will see there is a short typedaccount of it, which please don't lose. There is I hear howevermuch more in the historical interest of the totem then appearsin the account & Keyes tells me it is really "priceless" onaccount of its historical traditions and mystical Maori associations.So I thought it best to send straight home for you to keep. SirHedworth I suppose sent it me as the Maori contingent isunder me & I must say I think it was rather nice of himto have thought of such a thing. You remember seeing him atDelhi don't you?I shall now be having a much more civilized life of it thanat Anzac, for at Imbros I have a small two roomed woodhut - which can be very cold!! It is colder there I think a gooddeal than at Anzac. Also there is a regular mess there, inwhich I'll have to have regular meals I fear instead ofgoing through my trenches all day - so please stop Harrod'ssending any more fruit at all - it would only go into themess where they already have stores etc. I do so hate theidea of leaving my old family circle - there, there was no room in our dug outs for a regular mess, so I always had breakfast& tea alone, & one of them always took it in turn to come to dinner, when wehad your tinned fruits - now however it will all be different- & I shall notwant them. The only ones I can take of my old staff are the 2 A.D.C'sde Crespigny & Chirnside. The former has been in hospital in Egypt for thelast month - while Chirnside though a really nice fellow & I am sure mostfaithfully loyal to & fond of me, as an A.D.C. or companion is quite useless.If we ever get to a country where motors can be used, he will however beinvaluable with his beautiful Rolls-Royce car - on account of which hewas picked out as my Australian A.D.C ! I hope however that when GenlSkeen is well enough again to come out- to me that he will come to meas I have replaced him at Anzac & have kept a vacancy for him at H.Q.Also I am asking for Pollen as my A.M.S. & it will be nice having himwith me. Then too I mean to go over to Anzac as often as I possiblycan to see the Australians & enter into all their work, & I hope keep intouch with them as I always have done. This though will be difficultas I now have 2 other wives in the Army Corps at Suvla & Helles -a concubine in the shape of an enormous base of about 20,000 mento be looked after also ! At Suvla is Genl. Byng with 5 Divisionswhich I have got to get to know & at Helles is Genl Davies with 4and there are 2 French Divisions there as well. I shall have to dothem all in time, so I can't hope to see very much of any of them,especially in all this bad weather, for days at a time are verylikely to pass without it's being possible to land anywhere.I have just got your letter of 23rd Oct & feel so annoyed becauseapparently you can't have received several of my letters & I am wonderingif it is worth while my writing so many long letters as I do(generally having to sit up past mid-night to do so) if you don't get them. All yours I think I have got - But do you hear from me about oncea week? If mail from here does not go on any regular day- justwhen ships happen to be going, and one military goes every week - then toosome take much longer than others going via Egypt or Malta - But youcertainly should have heard every week & I hope have done so - But certainlymore than once - two or three times - I have told you the parcels sentby Harrod's have arrived & not long ago I told you they sometimeswere so badly packed. I told you all about what I thought aboutthat 500 for Chris from Mrs Ritter - viz. that it must have been leftby Major Wright - more than once I have said to invest all savings inWar Loan as I think that is the only right & patriotic thing to do.It may be that letters I wrote about all these may have arrivedjust after you sent off your last letter- that is so annoying - notknowing if letters have crossed or not. As test cases do pleasewhen answering this tell me if you have got my letters tellingyou about all above - and one particularly asking you to let meknow if an account in the bank had been credited with about52 from the India office - & has this been done ? It willI know since have been credited either last or this month withabout 335 , as the Pay master told me he had done this.Also did you get my letter about your birthday? You saidyou hadn't when you wrote on 30th Sept. Also did youget one giving you Isabel's address at Chepstow? Will youplease let me know of you have got letters about all these and I'll be much happier in my mind - otherwise I feel Imust stop writing long letters, as there is no knowing into whosehands they may not fall. We have had bad luck here, as wehave just got news of a German Submarine having sunk one of ourships with 2000 bags of mail - & now one of our tugs with a largenumber of outgoing bags for home has been sunk in the storm wehave had these last few days. I don't think any of my letters were in itas I was away from Anzac. I hope you got my telegram with a messagefor the men's Xmas Cards. It is hard to condense into a line, so I hopeyou may have improved on it in the wording. Also I sent off anotherwire saying New Zealanders must be included, as otherwise they willfeel very hurt. As it is I think they are inclined to feel they are ratherneglected, which is perhaps only natural, as they are only about ofthe Australian numbers. The word "Australian" is often used to includethem both - which annoys the N.Z's very much, for they are awfullyjealous of each other! Mr Mackenzie the N.Z. High Commissioner will ofcourse be able to tell you all about them & I much hope you will get him totake you down to see their hospital at Walton on Thames some day - he willbe delighted if you ask him to do this & proud to take you!I think there is nothing to be done about those parcels you asked meabout - I mean there is no one on my Staff here to whom you canaddress them & though it may take time sending them to theEbury St depot, I fancy that as a Central place is better inthe long run - more confusion is caused by being sent independently& no one here would know anything about them on arrival. As amatter of fact so far we have I think had what we want. Did I tell you I expected more or less of a fight with K when he arrivedon my refusing to agree to go in for some big plans he had wired tome to undertake? I was delighted that he quite dropped them & told mejust before he left for Athens, that he now quite saw they were out ofthe question. This should I hope reach you just about Xmasso I write to wish you a very happy one - though I fear none can be verybright at home this year - but I hope you will have all the childrenwith you & one has to make things as happy for them as possible, asI know you all will. Remember to countermand the tins of fruit for me.The stoves haven't yet arrived, & I'll let you know when they do so.I don't think there is any necessity for you to be in London to be on committeesetc. You see I am not in Chief Command now out here. Monro is - & hiswife will have to take Lady Hamilton's place. Also I always think there are oftenrather too many people on many committees, with the result that little isdone. What you want are very small working committees, while people seem very fond of having plenty of hands shown as being on them! I am so very glad though that you have been active as you have on the Australian one & do remember not in any way to seem to neglect the New Zealanders. Mackenzie is a very nice & modest fellow who will be very gratified at any interest you may be able to take in his men, - write to him if necessary about anything.Goodbye my own little wife. I shall be thinking of you verymuch at Christmas & all my love to youEver your very loving old,Will.