Author: William Birdwood Date: 7 January 1916 Location: Dardanelles Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: Headquarters,Dardanelles Army, M E. F.7th January, 1916.[*To his wife*]I am beginning a letter to you just before thefinal evacuation of the Gallipoli Peninsula. I wrote andtold you what a very trying time of it I had over "Anzac" andSuvla, and I am now again in the throes of the whole thingover Helles, which I am sincerely hoping to see throughsuccessfully tomorrow night. It is of course a very differentproposition, as the Turks are naturally thoroughly awake towhat may happen, and the latest prisoners tell us that Germanofficers are constantly going round their trenches at night,so they evidently mean to have at us if they can. They keepaeroplanes flying over our position day and night, while theyhave lately been keeping up a continuous bombardment through-out the twentyfour hours on our beaches, mostly with big shells- 4.2", 8" etc., which makes work extremely difficult anddangerous. Two nights ago, a note was thrown across into oneof our trenches in German - "When are you finally leaving here?"We shall all meet again on the Suez Canal!" so they haveevidently made more than an intelligent anticipation of theirown and our intentions. In spite of this, I am full ofconfidence and hope of being able to withdraw successfully,provided always (as before) that the weather is kind to us, andI have every faith that this will be the case.I am arranging at Helles to withdraw 17,000 men inone night. We have 20,000 men there at present, of whom weget off 3,000 tonight, and leave the balance for anothertwentyfour hours, but it is of course quite possible that heavyweather may spring up at any moment, in which case we are strongenough there to hold our own for a week, and all arrangementsare made, if heavy weather should come on, to stand fast untilthe first fine night, when all will be withdrawn. We havestill got about 50 guns ashore - French and English, and Iam afraid that I must make up my mind to sacrifice betweentwenty and thirty of these, but they will of course all beblown up at the last moment. Though these may sound alargish number, yet they really are negligible. Among theBritish guns that we are abandoning, only one is what youmight call a modern weapon, viz., a 6" gun. Of the remainingEnglish guns, we have got off all modern weapons, viz., 18 pr.,6" and 4.5" howitzers, leaving behind only the old 15 pr. and5" howitzers, which have been brought out here by Territorials,and for which I understand no more ammunition is beingmanufactured. With the French guns I am getting away all theirbeloved 75's, and leaving behind only four 9.2" and two Navalguns. They tell me that all of these have fired about 5,000rounds each, and are really of little value to them, so I thinkwe can blow them up without regret.I am sorry to say that we will have to destroy agoodish number of transport animals before going, which maypossibly amount to eight or nine hundred. We have had realbad luck regarding them which has been unavoidable. The firstnight when we started evacuation, I sent over a horse ship,which would have brought away 500, when the French Flagshipproceeded - apparently without much reason, to ram and sinkher as she left the harbour here, defeating me for that night.The following night a high wind got up, making work practicallyimpossible, and a whole lighter load of mules, that was on thepoint of being shipped, got driven out to see and was lost.If we could only rely upon fine weather, we wouldof course be able to get off all our animals, but I dare notgamble with them against men's lives, and I feel I must takeadvantage of the first fine night to get away, and just destroythe remaining animals; but I mean to get off all I possiblycan between now and the actual time of going. It will be areal load taken off my shoulders, and, if we succeed, Governmentshouldindeed be grateful for the efforts made by this forceto see them through a very uncomfortable position.I am delighted to say that I have found myrelations with the French, since I have been in command here,have been excellent, and I am most grateful to littleGeneral Brulard for the way he has met me in every detail.Some little time ago, by the wish of the French Government,we evacuated their Senegalese (24 companies) and 1,500 Creoles,so as to get them out of the cold. As soon as I get definiteorders for evacuation here, I at once withdrew the whole of theremaining French Infantry - about 5,000 men, so as not to haveany possibility of divided command in the final rearguard, butGeneral Brulard at once agreed to leave me the whole of hisartillery, to be withdrawn entirely at my discretion, gun bygun pari passu with the British guns - their C.R.A. taking hisorders direct from mine, and giving me an entirely free handabout abandoning any of his guns. I have or course explainedto him that every possible French gun we can get away will bewithdrawn, while he agreed it would be out of the question toget away his six big guns, which he assured me were of verylittle value to them. The little man has played the game mostthoroughly, and I am extremely grateful to him. I will of coursebring his name to notice when I send in my report on theevacuation, and I sincerely trust it may be found possible togive him a "K.C.B.," which I know he and the French troopswould sincerely appreciate. He has been kind enough to sendme a telegram yesterday, telling me that his Government haveapproved of my becoming a Grand Officier de Legion d'Honneur,while they have also conferred upon me the "Croix de Guerreavec palme," though I am at a loss to think why they shouldhave thought fit to honour me in this way.The Germans are evidently very keen upon gettingat my Headquarters, and we almost daily have a visit from"Fritz." He came along over here yesterday, and got in twogood sized bombs just either side of my tiny wooden hut, andthen proceeded to fly over our transport lines, where I amsorry to say he sent showers of hand grenades, causingcasualties to 130 mules and about 30 men in our camp, so Ifear it was for him a successful raid. All our anti-aircraftguns on the ships and on shore were firing away at him for allthey knew, but I am sorry to say with no success. We sent upour machines over to their aerodromes at once in retaliation,and I am glad to say they seem to think they did some good.I am delighted to have Admiral de Robeck back here,and he has kindly come up here and made his headquartersalongside of me; we see each other daily to arrange about alldetails, as was the case with Wemyas before the other withdrawals.Admiral Fremantle is also here with tow of the ships of hislately arrived squadron, "Hibernia" and Russell," both of whichare delighted I think to be here in time to join in, and wehave been having some very successful shooting recently by themon the Turkish batteries on the Asiatic coast with I hope goodresults.Monro and his staff went down to Egypt ten days ago,and I presume I shall follow on down there, as soon as I havecleared Helles - but exactly in what capacity, and what force Ishall have under me when I get there, I do not yet know. deRobeck is very anxious that I should go over to Salonika withhim to look round there before I go to Egypt, and I hopeperhaps I may be able to manage this for a couple of days.(Later - 09/01/1916.)Not having been able to get this off before, I havekept it until our evacuation was over, which I am thankful tosay was the case at 4 a.m. today, and I now again feel a freeman with no anxieties - but just a little done up, though onlyfor a day or so. After a lot of bad weather the sky suddenlycleared, and we had two days which were lovely, so I decided totake advantage of this, and put forward final evacuation by 24hours, viz., the night of 8/9th.On the afternoon of the 7th, the Turks suddenlydeveloped. Capt. Drury Lowof the Chathamis taking home myFrench decorationsfor me - pleaselet me know ifyou receive theseall right.There are 3of them inone box.The Chatham willprobably not be hometill middleFebruary