Author: William Birdwood Date: 29 March 1918 Location: France Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: 1st ANZAC CORPSB.E.F., FRANCE29 March 19181918My own darlingest.No letter at all from you since I left, so Iexpect the mails are all over the place, though Ihad one or two from home. I know you willhave written from the Robinson's & I am so longing tohear that you got back all safely from Blythe &were all right there till you left to return to ThurlbyIv I hope yesterday.I told Chris to write to you last night about theKing's visit. He came over quite suddenly &unexpectedly midday yesterday & after some lunchwith Genl. Plumer came to tea with us here. Hewas most awfully nice & natural as he alwaysis & seemed to enjoy his little tea thoroughly.He was full of conversation & I thought very pleased to see Chris who behaved all right!Col. Wigram was astonished to find him herehaving last seen him as a small boy in Simla.The King was here for about an hour & returnsto England tomorrow hence one can talk of hisvisit as he will be back & the announcementmade in the papers before you get this. It isI think a good thing that he should come overto be seen by the troops in a crisis likethis, & though cheery, he naturally could nothelp being anxious. There is no morenews & at present no news is good newsfor it is impossible to foresee what thefuture may not contain. I expect to be leaving here soon, but nothing definiteas yet. I stupidly gave my Secretary -Capt. Ward - a fortnight's leave when I leftwhen he rushed off to Italy & we haven't sofar been able to get him back! It's rathera nuisance as he keeps all my papers, & allthe many Australian enquiries get hung uptill his return - however I hope we may hearof him in a day or so.Did you by any chance go to see my portraitwith Lady Robinson before you lefttown? & I do hope you told Mrs Buckley how sorry I was not to have seen her. Iam so afraid she might be feeling hurt,& after all her many kindnesses to us allI wouldn't have her hurt for anything.I suppose you never thought of asking herfor the small "Australia" badges I wroteyou about for Genl. White?By the bye I think I left at Thurlby thebook I brought over & was reading - I amnot quite sure of the exact title, but itwas something like "Australian Commonwealth" by "Bernard Wise". I may have left it inmy room, but more probably in the hall. Ifit is not there then I must have taken itdown to the Robinsons & left it there. Wouldyou look for it without fail little one - &if not at Thurlby write & ask Lady R.about it & let me know results? I don'twant to lose it, & it has no name in it.Give the enclosed to your Father - theremarks about the pig keeping mayamuse him. I also enclose a letter from old Mrs McIIwraith, whoyou will see writes so nicely & wereally must go there one day.Goodbye my own sweetheart & all mylove to you little one.Ever your very lovig old,Will.