Author: C Nabokoff Date: 16 May 1917 Nationality: British Text: May 16. 1917.My dear General,I can hardly tellyou how much I appreciateyour kindness in writingto congratulate me onmy new appointment,and how grateful I amfor this new token of yourfriendship which I havealways valued so highly.It is of course a promotion,but nevertheless a great personal calamity ! It isa mistake for a diplomat,who is a bird of passage,to get deeply attached toa country and to his friendsin that country, and I amnow paying the penalty forhaving made that mistake.All my best friends, thosefor whom I care most, arehere or at the Britishfront in France; with thelatter I have kept in constanttouch, and it breaks myheart to have to part withthem and break theseconnections. Also, I have tried,in the discharge of myduty, to depart from theconventional and antiquatedmethods of diplomacy, andto come in close touch notmerely with officialdom,but with public bodies inand outside London, withthe press etc. And I mustadmit with deep regretthat after my departurethere will be no one here topick up the threads thatwill have to be broken. Thesituation in Russia is farfrom stable, and in mymodest opinion my Government are making amistake in sending ourAmbassador who will findhis "trappings" rather anembarrassment than a sourceof authority. They had a"provisional" representative- a much more suitable position,and they ought to have stuckto it. The news comes todaythat the Foreign Ministerhas resigned, and this leavesme with a faint flicker ofhope that the Ambassadorwill not come after all,and my appointment willbe cancelled for the time being. The idea of going to Bernedoesnt appeal to me inthe least. it is a boche-riddencentre of internationalintrigue, and diplomacy isin my opinion incompatiblewith intrigue, with anythingthat isn't absolutely sincereand straightforward. Thereis only one post I wouldhave accepted with comparativesatisfaction, and that isWashington, where there ismuch useful and far -reaching work to be done,and where I would havebeen absolutely "at home", as I have had ample experiencein dealing with Americans.However. one is not in aposition, especially at thepresent moment, to refuseto serve the country inwhatever capacity it maybe deemed suitable to beplaced into.There is a great deal ofanxious criticism in Governmentcircles and in thepress here of the state ofaffairs in Russia. Thecountry is passing througha tremendous crisis, thetask of evolving order out of chaos in wartime is oneof such magniture thatno single brain can graspit. At this time, we needthe fullest sympathy andloyalty of our friends andAllies. Unfortunately, Imust admit that certainpeople are rather inclinedto ask too much! Sofar, Russia has escapedmany pitfalls and traps,the Army has remainedloyal, the temporary andinevitable breakdown ofthe discipline has not causedany grave disasters, and I remain confident thatthe Army will yet show itsstriking power. Germanyis working hard to prolongthis state of anarchy andconfusion, but I am toodeeply convinced of thegenius of the Russian peopleto admit for one secondthat common sense andelementary patriotism willbe wanting. It is true thatthe Germans have withdrawnseveral divisionsto the West, which hasrendered the task of theArmies in that theatre more arduous. But this,I am certain, is only temporary,and we must, in justiceto Russia, bear in mindthat in 1915 she withstoodthe onslaught of superiorforces for several monthswithout a shell or a cartridge!I have always believedthat the death blow toGermany would be dealtby the British Army, andthe magnificent power andheroism of your troops haveproved that I was right!On the other hand, it hasbeen conclusively proved that the old regime in Russiawas treacherous, and thatthey were working for aseparate peace with Germany.However difficult, therefore,the process of reconstructionmay be, our Allies haveevery reason to be gratefulthat the overthrow of thecorrupt and contemptibleautocracy has taken placein time to save Russia froman irreparable militarycollapse and a revolutionwhich would have been themore terrible the longer wewould have waited. I shall write to youas soon as I know forcertain whether and whenI am to leave London.With my heartfelt thanksand warmest wishesYours very sincerely,C.Nabokoff