Author: William Birdwood Date: 3 June 1916 Location: Cairo Egypt Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: You couldsend Irene'spresentby King'sMessengerperhapsCairo.3rd June 1916. My own darling little one. I was so glad to get your letter of 10th & to know that you had got my letter about the first evacuation all right - you will still now have got one about the second I hope. I am so glad too that dear old Lord K & Fitz came to see you, for I know how really rushed they are with workevery hour of the day, & I think it was most awfully good of them. I am sorry Lord K. talked though about my coming home. He told me if I wanted a rest that I was to write to him when he would arrange & I had hoped if nothing was doing to have been able to pop home quite quietly & without a wordto your complete surprise!! But for the formation of this ArmyI think I might have been able to manage it - & if thisshould not come off I still hope I may be able to do. Iam at present awaiting to see if Australia agrees - if shedoes I shan't have a single spare moment - & even then Idon't know if I'll ever be able to get through everything intime - for there will be an appalling lot to be done - morethan twice which I had to do with the formation ofthis Corps here last year. It isn't little lamb, as I amsure you know that I don't just long to get home & see you all & I'll just rush along if it is possible. It isn'tthat my profession comes before you all, because that isn't itat all. I feel I have absolutely no ambition now - any I mayhave had has been more than satisfied by winning the confidenceof all these fine men in the field. But I do feel that oncecan have no thoughts now but the safety of the Country which isstill in such great peril, while defeat would be too awfulto contemplate. All we have ever lived for would be gone & England & everyone in it would be simply trampled to pieces. Not thatwe are going to lose for a minute. But if there is any little thingone can do to ensure success I feel one simply has to seeit through, & if this reorganisation is sanctioned I am vainenough to believe that I must be here to carry it through. Itwill require an enormous amount of work - a great deal ofimprovisation & personal influence to carry it through as to someextent it must encroach on vested interests, & I believe Ican deal with such matters better than anyone elsehere, for they somehow seem to trust me. I was really quitetouched yesterday when going round the ranks an oldAnzac, New Zealander said "I hope you are coming backto us now Sir & will command us right through" - & when Isaid I was, he so fervently said "Thank God. That'll do me all right". Poor fellows, they are all mad keen ongetting over to France where as a matter of fact I expect wewill go, but they none of them seem to realize the enormouscasualties we are bound to have in our fighting there.With the reputation they have made as fighters, I fancy weare sure to be given some real tight jobs to carry through& I can never dismiss from my mind, the thousands who may bekilled. No one will realize more than you how this is makes medo all the little I can to help them now, for good organization& training now, is what is going to pay & save lives later on.Even dear old K. doesn't always think of such things. Hehas never had to train troops & I doubt if he realises all itmeans - also when he saw you, he had no idea of thepossibility of this big scheme - if it doesn't come off Ishall still hope to be able to run home soon little one. Butin any case I quite think we will all come over toFrance & if so I do not anticipate any difficulty ingetting home then - &more than once. But it is of coursetoo early to make such plans now. I seem to havebeen seeing numberless men in hospital since I arrivedhere - there seems no end to them, which is depressing.The McMahons are most awfully good & will not let me leave them as I am daily expecting orders about forming my newArmy. Irene is to be married on 9th. I am afraid you may only just havegot my letter by then asking you to send her a wedding present, so itcan't be in time, but I know you will send it as soon as you can. They had hoped to get the married daughter out for the wedding, but this order prohibiting ladies coming here at all has stopped it, and McMahon saysthat in any case he would not have allowed it now that there areso many submarines about between here & Malta. Both these wouldapply to you little one if we had decided you should come out, foreven if you were allowed it is not a bit too safe at present, & oneis thankful to hear of every ship arriving safely. You mustn't worryabout Lord K. saying I was thin. I certainly was very much so at one timeat Anzac, but that passed off & I feel I am now getting roundly fatat the McMahons - it is so hard to escape lunch! I see an accountin a paper of your being presented with a boomerang at the Anzacbuffet? I expect you write & told me about it, in one of the mails thatwas torpedoed. You will I hope have got my letter about our evacuationof Helles long before now. It certainly is much to be thankful for & it is niceof Monro to have said I was to be credited. As a matter of fact he wasn'tthere at all & always held a rotten position. It was only my representation toLord K which made him put him in command of the Dardanelles andSalonika Armies - but as a matter of fact he slipped on a ship & sprainedhis ankle badly while Lord K. was at Mudros & was never able toleave his ship again till he went to Egypt 10 days before I evacuatedHelles. He only spent one day altogether visiting all threeplaces on the peninsula. As a matter of fact though the realcredit is due to the Corps Commanders and their Staffs who had to work out their local details & I hadn't very much to do, though of course Ihad the responsibility and anxiety. However I hope I'll never have suchanother thing to carry out. Monro who is a dear good fellow musthave been fearfully sick at being tied by the leg as he was. Istill chuckle to think of the disgust of the Turks at finding wehad got away from Helles with no loss. I fancy they lost so heavilythe day before when they attacked us, that it put them off comingon again so soon after. Tell me what Lord K. thought of Chris: Ido hope he appeared to advantage & wasn't shy? Nancy & Judith wouldI am sure have been very much all there! Did the latter have lots tosay? Where he is older is in his movements which have become so muchheavier - didn't you think so? Poor Wylly does seem to have had areal bad time of it with those two smashes to his face, but I hopehe is right again now &if I can get him to my new Army I'll certainlytry. You do seem to have had a real full house at Xmas at Thurlby &I daresay you weren't sorry you had spent most of the time in London.What a pity & mistake it seems not to send Julie to school & I wonderKath doesn't do it on her own & just tell Robin she finds she hashad to do so. He surely couldn't object if he realised how necessaryit was - but I fancy she would want a long time at a good schoolto get her right! As a very small child I quite saw how easilyout of hand she would get. I don't quite know what Col. Smiththat would be whom you met at Moreton Gardens, but ratherthink he must be a capital fellow who commanded one of myBattalions & whom I am sorry to say, I hear is not likely to returnto us at all. I'm glad you saw Edith. Do you know if Reggie is still trying to exchange into the 4th Hussars or is he stickingto the 11th? I hope so. Did you hear that Major Price has transferredto the Iris Welsh Guards, which I'm sure will please her very much!How is Mr Cliff? I saw him last at Mudros, but I fancy he must bein Egypt now, though where I am not sure. They should be richerthan ever as all shipping is now paying enormously. I have justhad a letter from Mrs Atkinson - what a queer creature she is ! A bitmad? How very nice Lady Robinson always seems to be to you & I am sureJudith liked being at Broadstairs for Xmas. I am rather amused at UncleGeorge's present of Homer & Virgil to Chris. What did he say to it?!! HowI should have loved to take Judith to the pantomime & I'm sure youall enjoyed it thoroughly. Look out for the Anzac magazine whichwill be published at home next month or March & for which I havewritten an introduction - you might send me 3 or 4 copies to sendto people - some of our ships I know will like them. All theXmas cards you had sent out have arrived all right & willbe much appreciated. Goodbye my own little one.Excuse a more than usually badly written scrawl, butas a matter of fact I write from bed as I suddenlyfound I had a temperature of 102 last night, so amsitting tight for a day or so. All my love to you.Ever your very loving old, Will.