Author: William Birdwood Date: 28 June 1915. Nationality: Australian Text: My own darling girl,Some real hot weather we are having here & all workis now a case of shirt sleeve parades. I'm so glad I bought my helmethere from Egypt, as we had heard those were not really necessary here &I daresay they are not, as many still wear caps, but I'm sure it ismuch better to have a helmet. What we should do without the sea toswim in, I really do not know - it's a sin since it's being so dangerous.& I had 3 men killed swimming yesterday - It's only just the first shell, asafter it men can take cover, but a good deal of the bathing is nowdone at night to avoid risk. I think they have taken to shellingus generally a good deal more than previously with some gunswhich outrange mine. - They won't come up to an attack though.Early yesterday they tried to screw themselves up to one. At 1.a.m theystarted bombing some of my trenches like bs devil, but for everybomb they threw in my boys hurled 2 or 3 back. Then at 3a.m.their Artillery began- smashed down some trenches & am sorry tosay, caused a good many casualties. Then at 5.a.m. their riflefire attack started & they expended thousands of rounds of ammunitionbut though we could see their bayonets all ready fixed in theirtrenches yet they evidently couldn't be got to rise to a chargeacross at us. We will find them all right & ready, though tooppose us most stoutly when it comes to our turn to haveto attack their trenches & they have always said thatTurks are at their best when holding trenches. You will see that I have done all I can to find out aboutpoor "Punch's" husband and I fear there can be no doubtabout it that he was killed. There were a tremendous lot killedon 25 - 26 April down at "Y" landing where some of Genls. Hunter-Westons & Paris' Divisions landed & I fancy he must have been killedthen buried in a common grave with many others. Such a pitytoo, as from his Colonel's letter, he was quite an exceptionallyfine fellow. General Paris to whom I wrote, commandsthe Marine Division. Poor woman I do feel so sorry for her,& I suppose she is left very badly off - any children?How are you sleeping now little one. Well, I do hope - and Nancytells me you are all well, while May in writing the other daysaid you both looked so fit & pretty - ahem!- You simply mustsleep all right. By the bye have you had Chris' teeth lookedat lately? If no do write to Mr Rintunl & tell him to sendChris along to the dentist at once just to be overhauled. AsI am sure this is so very essential with all boys &should be done constantly with them - every six months I think.Talking of teeth - I wonder if you'd look in the little brownleather box in which I keep my studs etc - & which Isent home from Egypt in this rather nice brown leathersquarish box. In this small box you will find anold tooth plate of mine, which you might send me-not that I want it at present, but you never know when you may not break your plate or chip atooth off it, & if I did this now, I should be quitedone, so always like to have the old one handy - See it isvery much wrapped up in cotton wool, as it's no goodrisking breaking it.There is a small middy here who reminds me so much of Chris &who tells me his father was at Clifton. A boy called Bush whosays he will be 16 in August, but who really looks 10. Such atiny little child & yet very much all there, so much so thatthey call him "Commander Bush", for he commands everything! Theyeach have to take charge of a picket boat & I fancy it does thema lot of good having a little show of their own while so young,& teaches them to be very spry too, for it's not too easy manoeuveringtheir boats about & alongside ships when big seas are on -at present though, it is always very calm. I had this little chapto come in to dinner with me one night, which he quiteenjoyed & made laugh with his schoolboy talk. "All theother "shots'" etc.I'm very glad you sent 20 to the Aust. War ContingentAssociation - that was quite right - But don't runaway with the idea that we are too well off! Justat present while I am here a good deal of money -practically all my pay is being paid into the Bank& accumulating there, though I may have to draw a certain amount here at any time - But you must rememberthis will not always go on and we will have heavyexpenses later on - going out to India - setting up house thereagain somewhere (we still have to pay for Somerleyton thisyear) - getting all our kit about India - etc. etc - while allordinary expenses are bound to go up enormously - Also my littleone though I have every idea & intention of coming througheverything perfectly safely, yet you must look all possibilitiessquarely in the face & do what you can to provide forthem. With shells & bullets constantly flying about, &likely to do so, as far as one can see for a long time yetthere may always be a chance of catching one - though thechances are of course very much the other way - But ifanything happened to me either at the war or ordinarily in anyother way, my big pay would stop at once, & you wouldonly have the much smaller pension. So I should like tothink that you had everything possible, and anyaccumulated pay now, would be a tremendously goodthing & would mean so much. Read the articleI enclose which I happened to see in the Times thismorning, and which really is a think. Every singleEnglish man & woman should think of & keep in mindfor the sake of the country. Don't you imagine for for one second that I am hinting or thinking ofyou being extravagant, for indeed I am not - for notonly do I think, but I know you to be so very muchthe opposite & you never spend money unnecessarily-The Times article however puts things in rather a newlight & shows how necessary it is to buy nothing that hasto be imported - i.e. for which money has to be sent out ofIndia England. Of course there is practically nothing you cando personally in this regard as I don't suppose you eat orwear imported things - but many people might help - e.g.the planting of vegetables everywhere possible - rearing fowlsfor eggs etc. would mean a lot of money not going abroad. Ifall tried in their tiny way, as all do in Germany, thetotal results would be enormous. Then if Watson caresto invest your money in Govt. Loans well & good - It islending money to the country where it is wanted - i.e. ifthis loan has not already been fully subscribed whichI rather believe to have been the case. That howeverhe would know all about, & arrange for you if necessary.Your father too, I fancy uses practically no importedthings, while I am sure he will be all on forhaving no unnecessary waste in the kitchen -coal etc - etc. Which are all things the Germans nowsave on so much - I don't quite know why I have written all this - but it certainly isnt becauseI want to say you are extravagant in any way, mylittle one, for I know you are not.I told you I think that I got back my own Australian& New Zealand troops all right again - In fact I putthem thro train a month ago after von Sanders bigattack on me, as I felt it safer having them herein case he came on again in large numbers. I thengot rid of the two Brigades of the Naval Division & was notat all sorry to do so, as they were nearly useless, thoughI believe they have improved by now. Punch's husbandbelonged to one of these, but not to any of the Battalionswhich I had with me.I am glad Nancy is to make herself useful in theHarefield Park hospital - it is just as well every girlshould do something now a days if she can & downthere it should be healthy & the work will do hergood. A good deal of the correspondence aboutthe starting of that hospital passed through my handswhen I was in Egypt Mr B-L write to me aboutit, telling me all about his vegetable & fowlraising arrangements. I told him howgrateful all the Australians were to him. I'm glad too that Mrs Freemantle is down there, as shecan always look after Nancy a bit if necessary, & she willbe able to go down to tea with her etc she is tired-outI daresay it will be harder work at first than Nancy hasbargained for - but it's an excellent thing that she has takenit up - and very good of old Sir G. Reid to have bothered toget it for her. I am glad you went to that Memorial serviceat St. Paul's as the Australians & Sir G.R. will have liked it.And I hope you will have gone on to Clifton for Chris'[[?common]] after. I am afraid you will not have gotmy letter suggesting your going on from there to Isabel Vaughan-Hughes in time, or it would have been nice to go ontherein all that hot weather. Poor little Chris he wasevidently very keen on your going down there & staying aslong as possible & I do hope you were able to put in the twodays he wanted.I wish you had been able to see Lord K. while in town - butI fancy he has few spare moments & that can't well be helped,but I'm glad you saw Fitz. I had a long & interesting letterfrom Moncount Butler who had seen & dined with K. I writevery happily.A wire has come saying I have been made a G.C.M.G.,& that is no end of a "bug" - if it's really true, thoughthere seems to be an idea it was to be a K.C.M.G.The former is the sort of thing they give to Ambassadors Sir G. Reid etc I see Smith-Dorian & Will [[?]] havebeen given it, but Sir Ian thinks Sir John Maxwell & I mayhave got "K's" & not "G's" - but we have heard nothingofficial. I got a very nice wire from Sir G. Reid ofcongratulations, but he didn't say what for, so weshall not know till we get the London Gazette. I hadrather thought I might have been promoted Lieut-Generalinstead of getting any further decoration, & it really wouldhave been more useful - though I feel that any rewardis premature - and too it makes one very sad to think youget a reward for all the good & hard work done by somany officers & men, only very few of whom can hope forany reward - and many of the best of whom have alasbeen killed. But that must always be the case inwar. I wired to Sir G.R. & told him I felt I had doneso little while the troops so few of whom can berewarded have done so much. A great deal of firingall this morning - bullets & shells flying about a lot, as Ihave been making a demonstration to help an attackby the Southern force & have succeeded in getting intothe Turkish nicely. Goodbye my one sweet wife. Lots& lots of love to you always. Ever your very loving oldWill