Author: R Wingate Date: 21 October 1917 Location: Cairo Egypt Nationality: British Text: The ResidencyCairo21st October 1917Dictated.My dear BirdwoodI have to thank you very warmly for your lettersof the 7th and 10th September and for the very interestingnews you sent me. Since these letters were written, yourmagnificent Corps has again covered itself with glory and Iwould like to add my congratulations to the hundreds ofothers you must have received on the splendid successes thathave been obtained in Flanders and to which the ANZACS haveso materially contributed. I am afraid it means that youhave lost many good men and true, but they have died in agreat cause and now I hope that the ground you have gainedwill enable you to dominate the Huns and pound them incessantlyin their mud-flats below.I wish I had time to write to you at greaterlength but all the momentous events of the past few weeksin this part of the world have taken up all my spare timeand my correspondence is hopelessly in arrears: I wanted, however, to tell you what a real sincere affection ourmutual old friend the late Sultan had for you, and never anaudience passed that he did not refer to his long standingfriendship for you. I enclose the copy of a Ietter I hadfrom the new Sultan in which he refers with gratitude to yourmuch appreciated telegram on the death of his brother - Healso spoke to me when I saw him and begged me to convey to youhis cordial thanks. Everything is now shaping fairly wellhere and Allenby is full of work in his particular sphere andI hope it will not be long before some good news comes.If you see my old friend Smyth will you explainto him the reasons why I have not answered his letter - I amalways putting off the time till I can spin him a yarn ofsome length, but that time never seems to come.With best wishes for continued success and goodIuck.Believe me,Yours Very SincerelyR. however, to tell you what a real sincere affection ourmutual old friend the late Sultan had for you, and never anaudience passed that he did not refer to his long standingfriendship for you. I enclose the copy of a Ietter I hadfrom the new Sultan in which he refers with gratitude to yourmuch appreciated telegram on the death of his brother - Healso spoke to me when I saw him and begged me to convey to youhis cordial thanks. Everything is now shaping fairly wellhere and Allenby is full of work in his particular sphere andI hope it will not be long before some good news comes.If you see my old friend Smyth will you explainto him the reasons why I have not answered his letter - I amalways putting off the time till I can spin him a yarn ofsome length, but that time never seems to come.With best wishes for continued success and goodIuck.Believe me,Yours Very SincerelyR. Wingate.General Sir W. Birdwood, K.C.B., K.C.M.G., &cCommanding ANZAC Corps, B.E.F.France.