Author: William Birdwood Date: 21 December 1915. Rank: Field Marshall. Location: Dardanelles Nationality: Australian. Text: Dardanelles Army 21 December 1915 My own darling Jenny Jane. Such a relief as it is to know that we havegot through everything so satisfactorily in this withdrawalfrom the Peninsula - & so far more satisfactorily than I hadever dared to hope could be possible. I shall always feelthat a special Providence was watching us & seeing usthrough this - nothing else could have ensured everythinggoing as it did, for the weather was just exactly rightthroughout & broke up 24 hours later - i.e. the date I hadoriginally decided on, but found it could be put forwarda day, so I did so. The sea beautifully calm & the moonnot too bright. It is wonderful. I enclose a copy of aletter I have just written to Sir Ian about it all, as I thinkthis is the best way of giving you a description of it all& of course it is private - I mean not for any sort of publicationas though there are no great details, yet it wouldinterest the Germans to know how we got away as we did.It makes me chuckle to think of them allowing us to getall 85,000 men & 200 guns from right under their verynoses without any loss, & I expect some of their officersare getting into trouble over it, though presumably theywill report they killed lots of us! You can imagine the satisfaction in seeing them bombard the whole of ourtrenches hard with all their guns, 5 hours after wehad left them! I daresay some of our ruses therefrightened them, for we had mines, bombs etc timed to gooff at varying hours after we left & hearing these, theypossibly thought it was a deep plot & a trap had beenlaid for them! You can hardly feel what a real relief itall is, & makes up to some extent for my grief in havinghad to leave at all, for at all events one feels no lives havebeen sacrificed. Had we lost men in this, as we sonecessarily did on landing, it would have been awful &created a lot of bad feeling both at home & in Australia.In fact if we had had heavy losses here, I believe theGovernment would have been turned out!I have just got a very nice wire of congratulations from theKing saying how pleased he is at the success of suchdifficult operations. Both my Corps Commanders, Byng &Gen. Godley (such a very nice fellow) did quite firstclass really leaving me very little to do, & all thecredit is due to them & their staffs.Now I am writing for further ideas as to what isbecome of us all in future. I still have an ArmyCorps of my Army at Cape Helles, but the other two are with me here or have gone on to Egypt, & I quiteexpect to get orders at any time to go there myself toprepare for the big German-Turkish attack which it seemsalmost certain will be launched against the Canal.I shall have a lot to do if I go there as it will be a bigbusiness - but of course we also have Salonika & Hellesto think of. I hope you got my line suggesting you sending out some"Anzac" Xmas cards. I showed the one you sent me toseveral people & they were all so pleased with it & asked ifthey couldn't have copies that I thought I might as wellget some to distribute, though of course it will notin many ways be possible to give them to all - & they mightbe very much too late for Xmas.My head where I was hit in May has been constantlytroubling me, but I have never had time to think of bysitting tight with it to let a Doctor get at it -having however a few quiet days here, I have just gota Doctor to open it out & he has discovered a longjagged bit of the casing of a bullet stuck tightthere! I'm glad to say he has got rid of this, so Ishan't have any more trouble now.I enclose a nice letter I have just got from Sir Charles Monro - it was nice of him to havewritten - and as you may care to see & keep themI sent the telegram from the King & one fromGeneral Brulard who commands the Frenchtroops under me at Sid-el Bahr.Goodbye my own little lamb & all my love toyou.Ever your very loving old,Will.