Author: William Birdwood Location: Army Corps Headquarters, Anzac Cove. Date: 18 May 1915 Rank: Lieutenant General Nationality: Australian. Text: Sir,I have the honor to submit herewith my report of the landingof the Australian and New Zealand Army Corps on the GallipoliPeninsula on 25th April, and the operations up to date. I also attacha report by Major-General W. T. Bridges, C.M.G., who commanded theleading division in the landing operations.The Army Corps left Mudros Bay on the afternoon of the 24thApriI, escorted by Rear-Admiral Thursby, fIying his flag on H.M.S."Queen," and accompanied by His Majesty's ships "London," "Prince ofWales," "Triumph," "Majestic," and Bacchante."Before leaving Mudros Bay, 500 men of the covering force(3rd Australian Infantry Brigade under the command of Colonel SinclairMaclagan, D.S.0.) were transferred from their transports to H.M.S."Queen," "London," and "Prince of Wales," respectively.At 1.35 a.m. on the 25th, the three attending ships stopped,and boats were swung out. The troops were then transferred to theboats very expeditiously, and as the Flag Captain of H.M.S. "Queen"reported to me - "not quietly, but in absolute silence." At the sametime, the balance of the covering force, viz- 2,500 men, weretransferred from their respective transports to six destroyers, whocame up from the rear, and closed the battleships at 2.35, when allproceeded under slow steam due East, H.M.S. "Queen" directing on apoint about one mile North of Kaba Tepe. At 3.30., when about fourmiles from the coast, the battleships stopped, and orders to go aheadand 1and were given to the tows, while at 4.10 orders were given tothe destroyers to follow.From the dead silence in which the approach had been made,and from the fact that no firing was heard for a considerable timeafter the tows had left the battleships, I had hoped that our approachmight have been unobserved, especially as a point of the coast had beenselected which was most difficult, and where, therefore, we might notbe expected. These hopes were, however, soon dispelled, for, as theboats approached the shore, heavy firing was opened upon them which, I regret to say, caused many casualties before the troops gotashore, some 40 men in one boat alone being killed in the boat, andthe total casualties were estimated at between 300 and 400, while theopposing enemy actually on the shore were estimated at 900. As amatter of fact, we had had to approach the shore with the battleshipssilhouetted against the moon, and it was therefore altogether toosanguine to hope for a surprise, but we were, at all events, able toland to a certain extent unexpectedly, in that the enemy were not ableto concentrate a really large force to oppose the actual landing,though I understand that two Turkish divisions were guarding thisportion of the coast. It was fully realised that wherever there were not cliffs thewhole coast everywhere had been fully prepared with trenches, barbedwire etc., but I also realised that it was quite impossible for theenemy to have men in all his trenches, and that consequently anythingapproaching a surprise would probably be successful. It was for thisreason that I decided to make my attack in the dark with the intentionof landing on as broad a front as possible, and hurling ourselves onthe enemy before he could concentrate to meet us everywhere. I hadoriginally intended landing with my right about one mile North ofKaba Tepe, as the advances from there up to the ridges of the SariBari Hill, which I hoped to take, were fairly easy, while the countryfurther to the North was so difficult and precipitous, that I fearedtroops would quite lose themselves in the dark, though the positionthere would probably be least guarded owing to the natural difficulties.I had however warned the Navy that, if we found ourselves heavilyshelled on this beach after daybreak, all landings would have to takeplace round the point to the North. As a matter of fact, the tows didnot proceed quite due East on leaving the battleships, but inclinedto the North, and landed me about a mile and a half North of where Iintended our first disembarkation should take place. As subsequentevents turned out, I cannot help thinking that the hand of Providencedirectly guided us, for it so happened that the beach, on which welanded, and which we have since held, is one of the few places wherethe steepness of the cliffs has made us to a great extent immune fromshell fire. Almost anywhere else we should probably have had tovacate vacate owing to heavy shell fire, which would most certainlyhave been poured on us. As it is, we are subjected to heavy shellfire on this beach, but by digging in and utilising all supplies astraverses, no great casualties have incurred.The covering force having set foot on shore at onceproceeded to attack with the utmost gallantry. In front of them wasa hill covered with dense scrub with ravines running everywhere andin places quite precipitous. Every ridge had been thoroughly entrenchedby the Turks, and it was against this position they hurledthemselves with the utmost determination, and with complete success.So vigorous was their onslaught that the Turks were unable to standbefore it, and they fled from ridge to rridge pursued by theAustralian Infantry.The leading brigade was promptly followed by the 1st and2nd Australian Infantry Brigades which disembarked from 6.30 a.m. to2 p.m., and it will consequently be seen that by 2 p.m. 12,000 menhad been landed. Concurrently with the landing of these two brigades,I landed the 21st and 26th batteries of Indian Mountain Artillery. Imay mention that during the whole of this period a constant shell firewas kept up on the transports, and a severe enfilading fire fromKaba Tepe on the landing. I was on the point of disembarking a fieldartillery brigade, when the enemy's heavy guns from the Dardanellesopened on the anchorage, and fell so close to the artillery transport,that she had to weigh anchor and move further out to sea, whichconsiderably delayed the getting off of more guns ashore. It will beseen from General Bridges' report that he at once supported thecovering force with his other two brigades, and eventually succeededin obtaining a position with its right about a mile from Kaba Tepe,and swinging round on a front of about 4 miles with the left overFisherman's Hut. Owing to the shelling and confusion in landing, itwas impossible for brigades, or even battalions, to disembark in theexact rotation intended, while, as troops landed, they had to beutilised where most urgently required. This consequently led to agood deal of confusion and mixing up of units, detachments from allbrigades serving alongside each other. In cases, detachments underyoung officers in their zeal and gallantry proceeded too far afield,and in a very difficult country got cut off from the main body, and I fear we are likely to come across many of these who are nowreported missing when we make a further advance. The disembarkationof the Australian Division was followed by that of the New Zealandand Australian Division (which consists of two brigades only) whichwas completed by 7 p.m., with the exception of about 1,500 of the4th Australian Brigade which landed next day.I attach General Godley's report on the action of this Divisionwhich will show that the New Zealanders were every whit as full ofdash and gallantry as their Australian brothers, and, I regret to say,suffered equally heavy casualties in proportion.Almost directly after the troops landed, we were subjected toheavy shrapnel fire, which was continued practically throughout theday, and to which we were unable to reply except by the Naval gunswhich did excellent work. The country in which we found ourselveswas most unsuitable for the employment of any artillery but howitzers,of which my Army Corps has only four, and, until roads could be madeto bring guns up, it was impossible to move them from the narrowstrip of beach on which the landing has been effected. This difficultyhas been continuously felt since landing, though by tremendous effortsguns have now been man-handled to what at first seemed almostinaccessible heights, and the enemy's fire has, to some extent, beenkept down. By nightfall of the 25th the troops were much exhausted.They had been up practically the whole night before, and had beenfighting hard all day over most difficult country, and subjected tosevere shrapnel fire in the open, as they had no opportunity fordigging. Further, by the breaking up of units, numbers of men whofound themselves with small detachments of their regiments were underthe impression that the remainder of their regiments had been cut up,which had a very depressing effect upon them. By the followingmorning, however, the spirits of all were quite revived, and the menwere full of fight, as indeed they well might be after theirmagnificent achievement of the previous day, an achievement of whichany army might well be proud. General Bridges' report gives suchdetails as is possible, but with the troops so scattered about on sucha difficult position, anything like an exact detailed accountis impossible. The casualties were, I regret to say, very heavyamounting to approximately 500 killed, 2,500 wounded, and 2,000missing. I trust, however, that a large number in the last-namedcategory may eventually prove to have been wounded. The woundedhad to be evacuated from all points of the beach as quickly as possibleand it was not therefore feasible at the time to keep any exactrecord of the numbers despatched.I am unable to state the numbers of the enemy's casualties,but they were certainly very heavy, as on more than one occasionmaxim guns got on to them when in groups, and the country all roundmy position is still literally strewn with dead Turks who are addedto daily.I had hoped to be able to start reorganising brigades andgetting units together on the 26th and 27th. The enemy, however,persistently attacked us day and night, giving us no rest of any sort,and affording no opportunity whatever for relieving any portion ofthe line to start reorganising. On the 27th, during the day, and more so during the night, Turkish attacks were continuous and determined, but these were successfully repulsed. The losses had been so heavy that anadvance was not possible until I could reorganise, and consequentlyit only remained to dig in on our present position, and to get water,supplies, and ammunition to the ridges held, which was in itself amost difficult undertaking. The casualties on the 26th and 27th amounted tobetween 500 and 600, and since then have averaged about 250 daily.On the night of the 2nd May an attempt was made to improve ourposition by pushing up the valley and attempting to seize the knollon spur 700, but the position was found too strong, and the originalposition was re-occupied with a loss of 800 men. On the morning of2nd May, a party was sent to examine Mt Falcon, where an observingstation was found, and 12 of the enemy were captured, three othersbeing killed. On the morning of May 4th, an attempt was made toseize Kaba Tepe, but was not successful, as the enemy were found tobe in strength in a position which is just a perfect honeycomb oftrenches; I hope to be able to take this later on with a strongerforce. Two battalions of the Marine Brigade were attached to myArmy Corps on the 28th April, and two battalions of the Naval Brigadeon the 29th, while the 2nd Australian Infantry Brigade, the NewZealand Infantry Brigade, and five batteries of field artillery weretransferred to the force at Cape Helles on 5/6th May, and 3rd/4thMay, respectively. At this time, the approximate strength of ourBrigades, viz- 1st, 3rd, and 4th Australian Infantry, was 2,200per Brigade.I cannot too deeply express my gratitude and that of mywhole corps to Admiral Thursby, and his officers, and men, for theassistance they have given us, without which it would of coursehave been impossible for us to have effected anything. I do notrefer only to the gun fire of the ships which has been invaluable,and which time after time has silenced the enemy's guns; butlanding and transport details, and all the arrangements for theevacuation of the wounded from the shore, in the Admiral's handsleft nothing to chance, while the pluck and dash of those engagedin landing parties was all that the traditions of the Royal Navyled us to expect.I also wish to mention that, but for the excellentarrangements Admiral Thursby has made for providing us with waterashore, my force here could not exist. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient servant, Lieut-General, Commanding Australian and New Zealand Army Corps. With Lady B letter. AUSTRALIAN AND NEW ZEALAND ARMY CORPS. From:- General Officer Commanding,A. and N. Z. Army Corps. To:- Chief of General Staff,M. E. F.