Author: William Birdwood Date: 11 November 1918 Location: France Rank: Field Marshall. Nationality: Australian. Text: 1918HEADQUARTERS,FIFTH ARMY,B.E.F., FRANCE.11 November, 1915My own darlingest,Victory at last! After all these long 4years! I have never for a moment doubted it,but at times it seemed so very far off, that itseems almost impossible to realise that now itreally has come. I made Chris send youexactly the same telegram as I sent you fromPretoria on 1st June 1902 about the S. AfricanWar. For years I had seen this struggle arising,with Germany daily increasing her strengths & oursrather going down - it had to come, so thesooner the better & I am so really thankfulto Providence that it is now all over, with the result that I hope our country may be ableto live in peace & prosperity for years to come. Wehave however to realize all the possibilities thatmay be before us with labour troubles on workingmen returning & over that, Govt will have togo with the greatest caution &wisdom.For the next few days there will of coursebe much to be done & indeed for some timeto come, but I quite think that by the endof the month I'll be over in London on A.I.F.work, though I haven't heard anythingdefinite from Mr Hughes about it. I had such a day of it yesterday. We had aservice first in the little English church hereto meet all the English people who have been inLille all these 4 years- about 100 of them.I had Bishop Gwynne - such a nice fellow withme, who gave a real nice sermon & later intheir meeting room I had to address them& shook hands with them all.Then I went in to Tournai which is the firstbig Belgian town my Army has taken. I hadto see the Burgomaster & talked about things generally& went over the lovely church they have there.I then went back to see Genl. Plumer quite close to Lille for tea. While there the King & Queenof the Belgians with their eldest boy the youngDuke of Brabant appeared, saying they weregoing to Tournai! It was then getting dark &of course roads are bad. I tried to put themoff, but not a bit of it - both would go - & inan open car & very cold. He is a hugegreat well built fellow - very plodding& sensible I am sure & rather shy. Sheis a perfect little dear & I can quiteunderstand everyone loving her. Such a littleslight frail creature with a figure& hands like yours & probably weighing about the same. When I told her it was much too lateto go careering about like this (as their H.Qswere a long way off), she told me they sometimesdidn't get home till 3 a.m. if they had anysick or wounded to see - &they live in a horridlittle villa without even a bath in it! To thinktoo that her sister was the wife of that brute PrinceRuprecht of Bavaria! The boy is at Eton &seemed such a nice but very shy boy, like ourPrince of Wales! Well - Tournai being inmy Army area, I had of course to offer to takethem round it, as they had no vehicle & didn'tknow the roads, so many being broken down.Fortunately I was able to wire in to expect us; or they wouldn't have seen any one. As it was theBurgomaster & a few very [[drunk?]] people met us withcandles & as soon as they recognised the King & Queen werereally delighted. Orations were made then in theTown hall & we then returned, I bringing themback for supper at 9 to my H.Q. at Lille. Onthe way to Tournai I found one road which Ihad been on only a few hours earlier, quiteblocked by a huge lorry stuck in the mudacross it!! Nothing to be done but turn round& go back miles, for these Flanders roads areawful & had we got off the narrow "pave"on to the side we would probably have beenstuck ourselves for the night. They certainlytravel most informally- only 1 A.D.C. & nocar to follow. I think they quite liked being brought back here for supper. I introducedChris to them here & they seemed to like himwhile he was delighted with the Queen.You can not imagine anything less formalthan they are in every way & evidently quitedevoted to their people. It was rather amusingtalking to him about the present revolutionsgoing on in Germany with the consequentuncertain future of King's generally - as hesaid - he might have to come over toEngland if things went wrong in his country,but he thought the people there already too free & sensible to want a change like that inRussia or Germany. I have much to do &by real bad luck, my Capt. Ward (the[Geersham?] has gone to hospital with theflu!All my love, my Sweetheart,Ever your very loving oldWill.