Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 8th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 8th. Thursday.Morning Parade:--Bayonet fighting by Serg. Smith. Theinstruction was laid out over a course; firstly in parties ^lines of 10we jumped into a fairly deep trench, got out over the top oncommand and charged the bags of straw, No. 1 lying on the ground, - 10 -withdraw and charge, No. 2, 1 yds. away suspended, withdraw andjab the high bag representing the throat, pass on for 20 yds.,jump into a shallow trench stab a bag on the parapet and race on5 yards and rest. This was strenuous work but good exercise. Iam very crud at bayonet work; but after having my right shoulderdamaged yesterday I was almost lose to-day.There followed squad drill with arms and a discourse onmusketry.Afternoon:--Short lecture on Map Reading by Major Harris:Followed by each officer enlarging a section of regulation map.This is rather pleasant and valuable practice. Half an hour onmusketry followed; with "standing load" and target pointing. Iam awfully backward here, but to improve myself I cannot obtainthe book "Musketry No. 1" to help me along.The evening lecture by a R.F.C. Officer on "AEROPLANE CONTACT."The only machines doing contact work for the Anzac Corpsare monoplanes. So that when you notice one hovering aboutduring an attack or shortly afterwards it is looking for information to take back to Corp Hdqs. It is easily distinguished bya broard black band on each of the wings and tags flying out behindfrom the wi ngs. Its duty at all times is to patrol around thefront lines of both sides and pick up any information to take backto Hdqs. In an attack it accquaints Hdqs, as to the new positionour troops have taken up and also notes the strength of the Germanresistance. During the first two hours of an attack two machinesare on duty. Afterward two hours there is only one.There are three methods by which the infantry can communicatewith the contact plane.1st. Flares (Red prefered)2nd. Ground signaling sheet3rd. Signaling lampThe most successful method is the first one. Flares shouldbe lit in groups of three one yard away from each other and 50yards between groups.A succession of A s. from the horn of the contact machinemeans that flares are urgently wanted. Should the position arisein which there are neither flares or ground signaling sheet to be - 11 -got it is advisable to make as much movement in the trench as possible.Such as waving hats and shaking water proof sheets in thebottom of trench or shell hole.It is often arranged that attacking troops will light flaresat a certain hour. But should this specificed time arrive andthere is not aeroplane in sight on no account light the flares.Even if the machine is there dont light up until the machine callsfor them as he may not be in a position to see just then.Flares are oftimes damp and will not light with the striker;if this happen just loosen the end a little and use a match to setit burning.When using the signaling sheet never attempt more than 6words per minute making full dots and long dashes. Each letterwill be acknowledged when read by a blast of the horn.Question asked.There are no monoplanes in use about the Somme but our contactaeroplanes. The German do not use monoplanes!! Wireless messagesare sent from the plane but not received!! Photographs are usuallytaken at an height of from 7,000 to 12,000 feet. Enough of thecountry is then taken in to allow proper identification of thelocality. The best cameras in the service are made with thelenses taken from German aeroplanes!! Big gun flashes are plainlyseen!! Shells are bursting very close when they can be heard fromthe machine!! The Germans dont use shrapnel at planes!! Theclock system of directing gun fire is used and is both clear andaffective. The target is taken as the centre of the clock, whethervisiable or not to the artillery, the 12 hour and 6 hour figurerepresenting due North and South. for example:-- Diagram- see original documentThe centre is the mark eachof the circles represent 10 yardsand are know by the fixed letters.If a shot land at the cross(x) the airman wires to the gun10.A. only and they know just howto range the next. But should itland 10 yds. away to the right itwould sent in as "2.Y." Thisclock system is also used by Hdqs.Bn. when calling for a barrageon a certain place in the line. - 12 -The more important parts of a Rifle.Backsight bed Bolt head " " ramp " " tenon Bolt rib " " springExtractor seating Bolt head hookBolt lug StrikerTongue of cocking piece Cocking pieceRetaining catch Stricker collarResistance shoulder Safety catchCut off slot EjectorBody socket Sear " " boss TriggerLever bolt breech MagazineLug seatingLong cam grooveShort " "