Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 16th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 16th. Friday.Morning Parade:--Platoon drill.Musketry 35 yd. rangeBombing.Afternoon:--Lewis gun.Extended order drill.5.30 Lecture German bombs.7.00 Lecture by the Officers "Reconnessance".Lecture by Capt. Maltby. "German Bombs."There are 9 well know kinds of German hand grenades, and2 kinds of rifle grenades."Stick grenade" weight 1 lb. 10 ozs. complete. There are no bullets or pellets inside the tin can. It contains highexplosive only. The ignition is caused by friction on thedrawing of the string running down the centre of the woodenhandle."Cricket Ball" can be thrown 30 yds. The interior isfilled with gunpowder and on exploding by time fuse the castironcasing breaks up and gives a shrapnel effect.Egg grenades. 11 ozs. in weight.. German books say theycan be thrown 50 yards; but at the school here they have oftenbeen thrown 65 yards and a good cricketer could throw them 90yards. It contains a small gunpowder charge, and because ofits lightness and smallness is not to be feared much.Oyster bomb, weight 13 to 15 ozs. It is a percussionbomb only. Its flatness caused it to be thrown a long distance.It is not a very destructive, being made of light plain ironthere is no metal to injure one. It is mostly used by men inattack, as, when thrown edgewise there is no danger in comingright up behind it, bursting right or left as it does.Hairbrush bomb. It is a long can packed around the sideswith pellets, the centre containing the explosive. The bomb isattached to a stick. It is one of the first bombs used by theenemy, but are still being slightly used. Time or pecussion.The rifle granades have a range of 400 yards. To reducethe range a washer is placed firmly at the top of the iron rodthis has the effect of bringing the range down very much. In extended order work there is the word retire to beforgotten. In all infantry work the word retire should neverbe used. It seems to throw the men into confusion when in afight. On the Somme front a German wounded shouted RETIRE,and valuable ground was lost. It has caused much trouble onother occasions also.