Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 10th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 10th Friday.From midnight to 8 a.m. we waited this morning outon the Flers road and never got a case to take in on ourambulance waggon. My boots and socks were wet and as there -4-was frost about it was a most trying time. I had a wholelot of clothes on, including a sheep skin vest and a heavyovercoat.There was a set of very delicate shades in thesunrise which later appeared like a red ball in amongst thepitiful looking remains of Delville WoodThe sun has been splendidly all day andif we get another good day tomorrow the mud will be dryingup and then there will be a chance to move ahead. It willbe costly work but better than to remain in our presentposition with the Germans getting picked and overlookingpositions as well as splendid observation from which theyare knocking blazes out of our artillery every day. I willbe extremely sorry for the troops who have to hold out inthis Somme front over the winter months with bad roads andno billets.A bright cheerful day again spoilt by aeroplanesand their efforts. One of the German 'planes was hit andbroken by our anti-aircraft guns this morning. Thousandsof our men saw it smoking then one of its wings broke offand it fell like a piece of wood. I feel as though I shouldapologise for my remarks concerning the inefficiency of ouraircraft guns, but I will delay it a wee bit longer I think.There are aeroplanes about again to-night withtheir machine guns rattling away, at what I cant say.I have just read Curtin's well written article\No. 14 in the "Daily Mail" . He has a fine clear form ofdescription and makes some remarkable statements. Thispaper (November 8th) is the first I have seen for weeks now.I notice from a German report that large French ammunitiondump was destroyed. This is only too true, as for hours itburnt and shells exploded in hundreds. We could bothsee and hear them -5- I received a parcel to-day and I have no idea ofits date, place of origin, or who sent it forward. Iwish this kind person had seen fit to put a note inside,as there is not even a postmark outside. It containeda tin of toffee, 1 fruit and 1 preserved ginger.