Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 9th November 1916. Location: Delville Wood. Regiment: 1st Field Ambulance. Rank: Lieutenant. Nationality: Australian. Left 1st Field Ambulance and joined 1st Battalion with aCommission. BOOK 4NOVEMBER 9th, 1916 ThursdayIt is passed midnight and I am waiting alongthe road just on the northern side of Delville Wood withan Ambulance waggon for a load of patients. There is alull on and all is quite but for the desultory and intermittingfire of our own big guns, and a burst of machinegun fire from up clouds warning us that there areGerman aeroplanes about even if their big guns are restingin silence. The night is a little hazy but the full moonmakes the road quite plain and rather cheerful. It wasrather unusual to see the sun slide quickly over thewestern rise while the moon, delightfully clear, rose inthe east.The day has been one of our very best of late;the sun shone with but few breaks all day. As our waggonfinished up working at 1 o'clock this morning we do not goon again until midnight, so there was whole day and goodday before me, even if it was a wee bit cold and decidedlywet and slushy under foot from the rains of yesterday andof weeks previously which have never had a chance to dry.I took advantage of it to wash myself two pairs of sockstwo singlets, a flannel shirt and towel. I could not thengo back to my humble abode and read or write so I shook upTom Yeomans and went, through slime and muck over my boottops, over into Tunes Wood, very much shattered and depleted,around past batteries of Tommy howitzers to the awful ruinsof the sugar refinery. Once, by the machinery lying aboutand heaped up in huge pile, it was a splendidly equippedplant; now there is not a piece of plate in either boilersor large iron tanks that is not shattered by high explosiveshells and riddled by bullets. The two chimneys stacks layin churned up piles just where they fell with scarcely a wholebrick to be found. -2-There are lots of troops camped in everyconceivable corner. A machine gun section of the 1stBattalion (or was it the 3rd Battalion?) were campedthere. One lot had turned a broken boiler overand made a respectable home out of it.From this scene of destruction we wanderedback to camp 1 miles away over very broken country asfighting has been terrific all around here. It was,however, fairly good walking amongst the craters but oncoming to a cavalry track or horse line the slush was afair terror.All day long the aeroplanes have been fightingone with the other or facing anti-aircraft gun fire.These anti-aircraft guns are, to the casual observer, quitea laughable proposition. I was near them the other daywhen there was a rumour of "Taubs" about, and the excitement,talk and jabbering of that gun crew was disappointing to me.There was an officer standing behind and when he did spot a"Taub" with his glasses the gun crew could not find itto lay on to, nor could I see anything but your own machinesabout. Anyhow, after a whole lot of exciting chatter theyfired a few shots and stopped. I thought then that theymust take things more coolly at most times or no 'plane ofour own would be safe coming back from the German linesmoving amongst the clouds for a while. This day these airguns got plenty of work as the sky was dotted about in alldirections with bursting shells dozens of times. It issurprising how much these guns miss by, also; and as forbringing a machine down, I have never yet seen them do it,although they say they do. But, after all, I except it ismy lack of acquaintance with either 'planes or guns thatgives me the idea that the anti-aircraft guns are as yetprimative and unsuccessful at their branch of work. - 3 -There were some 15 German balloons to be seenfrom the one point of vision to-day, while I counted 24of our own. The Taubs, a much smaller machine and Ibelieve a faster one too although we are told it is notso, flew calmly overhead many times to-day and as theyare about at night time also, it shakes one's faith inthe hold that we have had for a long time over the Germansin the air.Our first clear day, a day that one could admire,or rather the kind of day one longs for during the longseries of dull ones, so that he can look at it and enjoyits gladness, its brightness and its joys. Then alas!it is spoilt, and when the day has gone one is glad as thespotting out of trenches and positions only means deathfrom the artillery fire that is sure to follow; and thenthere is always a thought, an anxious and an almost sicklythought for the safety of the men up in the clouds who areshooting at one another like animals and yet are clever andbrainy as well as daring and brave men. It is a day ofdoubt and dread; so that, when a good day does occasionallycome along there is but little satisfaction derived from it.Letters from Father, Bert, Ferguson, Reynolds, andfour bundles of papers from home. Father is bright and stillexpectant of recovery after 3 years of illness. He has agreat heart!! Bert sends a cutting of my football article(Sydney Mail, September 13th) which is decidedly pleasingand will have a stimulating effect upon my work. I am sorrythough that Bert is again joining up with the artillery. Heshould have a spell first.