Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 23rd March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 23rd. Friday.Morning Parade:--"Attack of a Wood." "Practice."Afternoon Parade:--Trench Releifs, lecture Major Harris.Musketry 100 yds. range.1700 Lecture "Construction of Trenches" by MajorHarris.After dinner lecture "Night Operations" byofficers.On the morning parade we marched out about 2 miles, formedup into an attacking formation and went through the thickundergrowth with a section of Riflemen in line, a section ofRiflebombers in single file near the left flank Bombers insingle file near the right flank and a Lewis Gun section inline on the extreme right 10 yards behind the front line. Theobject of the whole scheme was to maintain direction throughout.This was easily done by keeping the sun on the right shoulder.There were several x in the Wood which we came up againston an angle. There being two way of crossing it to avoidmachine gun fire. One was keep our direction and cross overx Rides? at the double one after the other. The other way was to stopon the edge form up in line and all go over together. We triedboth methods and found that by all jumping across togetherthere was a small target which no rifleman could fire onquickly enough. On the other hand, by going across one at atime there was a considerable amount of warning given and arifle could have infliceted many casualities while a machinegun would have created havoc."Trench Reliefs."Carefull organisation of reliefes is very necessary. Toget it over quickly cheers the men and shows them that theirleaders can be relied upon. Men waiting about to releivebecome fatigued and irritable.Here is the difference between a good releif and a bad one.By 9 o'clock a good releif is completed and everybody settleddown comfortably. One Battalion I know (Major Harris) camealong in the afternoon to look about but thought it was quiteunessarary to bother about plans and sketches as the Coy. waswell disciplined and could be drawn up in a few moments. Theresult was that we had not completed the relief by 2 o'clock inthe morning.A system must be set down to the most minute detail. 24hours before the releif takes place the advance party consistingof N.O.O.S. and guides with one or two officers should be thereto find out all about the trenches and to take over the TrenchStores. One must be extremely cautious in taking over Storesand see that nothing in missed. One officer in taking a listput down "61 boots rubber," well it took weeks to straightenout whether it was 61 pairs or 61 boots. Officer in charge ofParty must make a sketch of the trenches showing the differentposts and communication way, accompanyed by a full report.Give complete details of working parties and any especial workin hand. The guides will make themselves accaquainted witheach of the flank Companys and investigate the communicationand tracks of carrying and ration parties. Officer will visit - 33 -personally every portion of the trench advance posts etc. Findout all about water supply rations and cooking arrangements.In marching by night to the trenches the pace should neverbe more that 1 miles an hour and the head of Coy. But makethe pace contineous dont stop at all. No halts. On completingthe releif Coy. commanders should report it at once to Battalion.The Coy. holding the front line are responsible for themaintenance of the trenches and should be keeping them alwayin good repair. "Construction of Trenches." Major Harris.Sighting, laying off of trenches must be done lying down.In trench digging the earth must be thrown well away atthe commencement so as not to have the bank blocked up as thetrench deepens. In hurridly laying out trenches place a manevery 5 yards lying down to form the line of the trench and theneach man having his task starts on the left hand corner and thework will be completed in a remarkable short space of time.In the shooting this afternoon I got a much bettertarget than I expected. There were very few really good targetswhich surprised me at 100 yards range.In trench digging each men for the first hour shouldremove 30 cubic feet. 2nd. hour 15 cb. ft. 3rd. hour 10 cb. ft.Hand drawn diagram - see original documentNarrow trenches are a grave danger in burying men.