Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 25th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 25th. Saturday.I have had another day in Amiens. A wet daythroughout but nevertheless the rain interfered very littlewith our (Ned Reynolds and I) getting about. A plate oflarge mud oysters and some wine was our pleasant opener.One dozen each with bread costs A francs 40.Lunch at the Belfort Hotel was a delightful meal.It was a charmingly cooked and served dinner of full Frenchcourses. The total cost was 22 francs, 10 for lunch, 10 forwine and 2 for the girl waiter. The wine was jolly good,everything was good.There were a whole lot of French and Englishofficers about the room but no notice was taken of one another.There is no saluting going on in the streets to speak of atall. I certainly never saluted one man. The Frenchmen seemto salute their officers in a quiet manner when meeting inthe cafes or barber shops where the ranker is just as much athome as the officer.We have both heard a whole lot about the largebrothel area that exists in Amiens, but after many miles Icould find none at all. A few professional women yes, butnothing to speak of. Amiens has many cobble stone paths andthe walking made our feet sore.I brought back some snails and on warming them overthe fire in the shell picked them out and ate them. The effectwas indeed disappointing as they were like a piece of gristle.I don't think they are chewed but swallowed like an oyster.These anyhow seemed too dry to swallow with ease or satisfactionas they were without any moisture only filled in ontop with a greasy preparation which I did not consider quitepalatable. I ate 8 of them while neither Reynolds or Winzarwould touch them. These snails reminded me for toughness of the shell fish like oysters or really a kind of oyster thatwe used to catch on the Suez Canal.Going into Amiens this morning at 9 a.m. we werelucky in getting a motor car to run right in the 23 kilosin no time, and coming home I got a big waggon at 5.30 p.m.and landed in camp by 6.40 o'clock.