Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 19th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 19th. Sunday.Mother's parcel is now opened and it is in excellentcondition; cake, plum pudding and sweets as well as a fewlittle pastries to fill up, and tooth brush and paste.There is absolutely no indication of Sunday, nochurch service at all, and mind we are miles back from thefiring line, in fact it is only when the wind comes over thebattle front that we can even hear the guns at all. Anyhow,if there was a church service, would I go? If I did go, itwould be purely to break the monotony and to have the pleasureof hearing an educated man string words together. Goodlanguage is elevating music to my ears. I know today also,that Dad is either at church or praying and reading his Bibleat home in the Transvaal. He, I know, will be thinking of me,and also will Mother;after dinner I can see her lying on thecouch and thinking deeply, yea, even wildly of Bert and I.Therefore, never a Sunday passes but what my mind drifts awayback home to Africa.There has been a little rain today, but the cold isnot so severe, even if the wind is blowing a little strongly.I went up on to the hill nearby in order to try and train myvoice and call out orders with effect and strength.I went down to the canteen with Shergold and Dinglethis afternoon and bought a pipe,having lost the one Jim Millersent me, as I am beginning to crave a little for a smoke. ThisI will have to suppress as I must not acquire such a habit or - 18 -allow it to become a craving. I also bought 2 tins ofpineapple and had tea and biscuits.We crossed the River Ancre, a branch of the Somme,several times. As a river it is very misleading, it beingso narrow. 15 to 18 feet would span it anywhere. Even theSomme River at Amiens is disappointingly small. Many of ourmen were almost indignant concerning its small pretensions,but when one comes to consider the depth of the river and theloaded punts or boats it carries, its usefulness is beyonddoubt. Australian rivers and creeks are allowed to meanderalong spreading over any shallow area and without any transportationvalue, whereas here the banks of the river are broughtin and built firmly up so as to ensure a strong stream of watereven if the narrowing of the bed does necessitate the buildingof a set of lock gates to hold the risen water back.I have done no work today. I wanted to write astory but cannot settle down. I want also to learn somethingabout company and rifle drill too, but books are difficult toget. Never mind, I'll scramble through somehow as usual.