Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 31st October 1914. Nationality: Australian. Oct 31stSaturday November 1stOur brass band seems tobe improving fast, the eveningsprogramm being highly appreciateI bought 8 apples for 1/- yesterdaythis is the first fruit I've had fromSydney. I paid 1/- for a tin of Toffee obtainable in Sydney for 6d.Sunlight Soap cost 1/6 per packet or6d a bar, which in 3d on shore.The dinner to-day was verysadly complained of. Soup asthin as water & salty. Corn-beefas tough & hard as possibleThe meals have failed badlyfrom time to time whetherit is meaness or bad galleywork tis difficult to say.The xxxxx venereal patientsare still increasing in numbersome 40 now.My hair was cut off to thescalp to-day with clippers operatedby Bob Miller I cleaned hisoff also. We are now likemost other fellows round about.now It feels very strangebut will most likely do myhair a lot of good as it isgoing back off the forehead &also getting gray. My age,however, is troubling me considerablyof late I am too old both inyears and in mind to betravelling with a crowd offellows like these.I washed my dungereesand other cloths to-day it wasvery hard and tiring work,I will never insist upon mywife doing such fearful workif it can possibly be avoided.I often wonder how my poormother lived through washingafter five boys in North Queensland and keep usall dressed in white cloths too.We were, I regret to saynot the most considerate ofboys either.The censor is gettingvery particular about ourcorrespondence during thelast few days. First wewere notified that letters, &packets must be leftunsealed, later only postcards and urgent wireswould be received, nowwe get printed cards withsentences on and you haveto cross out, leavingnothing to the effect"I am quite well andhope you are to same.Damn nonsense, weall seem to thinkI played solo whist lastnight and liked it.A card to W.L.B. in whichI told her to "stick" and promisedto write a little diary for her.I kind of think I am gettinga bit sentimental these timesBut it would be hard for mein this coarse company notto have some higher thoughtsto elevate me above the mass.A concert to-night. Left Albany.