Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 20th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 20th. Tuesday.Morning parade: --Company drill. - 28 -Bayonet fighting.Bombing (Live bombs.)Afternoon Parade:--Musketry. range finding.Rapid Loading.Platoon in attack.After dinner lecture by officers on:-- Patroles.1700 Lecture. WOOD AND VILLAGE FIGHTING.Staff Major Smythe.In defending a wood, they are different systems, accordingto the the size of the wood, to be employed. High Wood, Bernafayand Delville Woods are small ones. The German never defendsthe front edge of a wood or the back edge either. The best wayseems to be by putting your strong line of trenches 150 or 200yards in front and build support lines back 50 yds. or moreinto the Wood. Digging of complete trenches will be extremelydifficult amongst the roots so a strong redoubt system is thebest way with tactacle barb wire amongst the trees to turn theinvaders onto the strong points.Behind the Wood some 100 yards or more a reserve trenchshould be placed, and from which counter attacks could be made.The formation of the country will practically decide theposition in which trenches should be placed. Behind the crestof a hill is a good place as it will be out of enemy observation.In a wood lanes should be cut and undergrowth removedand trees that are fallen should be done so as to fall towardsthe enemy, they make good protection from observation and withthe branches wired an excellent barrier is made. Artilleryfire directed against a wood has a serious tendency to knockdown trees and block the whole wood up with fallen timber.In attacking a wood the defender is mostly very nervousconcerning his flanks being out of his touch and in the open.Always move your men across open country in open line, and in"Close" country keep them in close formation. But when moving abody of men always keep them under your direct command in closecolumn as long as it is possible: Heavy shell fire will be theonly reason for applying open or artillery formation.In "screening" an attack upon a wood have the "screen" - 29 -of men close enough to see one another.In getting onto the other side of the wood always movecarefully as there is sure to be an enemy trench covering thefringe of the wood. Advance through undergrowth firing freely.Snipers may be in trees; at anyrate by firing freely theenemy becomes upset and likely to over-rate the advancing partysstrength.Men always have a tendency to bunch together: try andavoid this.Villages are usually taken into the general line of defenseas there is good protection for the men, good positionsfor observating purposes and also a good water supply.If the Village is smashed by gun fire the attack will be inwaves as on the average line of trenches.The "Leap-froge" system of advancing will be employedthrough villages. Choose flanking methods of attacking avillage if possible.Men should be spread out over open country when beingshelled. Shrapnel throws forward 200 yds. and lateral range,25 yards. If you hurry your men try and give them a rest ina sheltered place before attack.