Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 29th October 1914. Nationality: Australian. Thursday Oct. 29th. It is astounding how carelessly, fellows have their bits of personal property lying about, and after the orderly officer or cleaners have placed things away in tiding up, the fellow come in and in very coarse terms accuse some of stealing there towle or hat fond as the "cleaners" are tired of picking things up and placing them on one side a notice now appears on the board. It runs. Article No 14 Scran Bag:- "All articles of clothing or equipment found lying about the ship in unauthorised places or hanging on cloth lines after their removal has been ordered, will be collected by the ships police and placed in the "Scran Bag". This bag will be opened every Thursday afternoon at 4 pm in the aft well deck when owners may claim their property on payment of a bar of soap, which will be utilised in cleaning the troop deck to which they belong". Today we done did our bandaging practice as usual (in the morning) in charge of Bill Summer. Bill is of raw Derbyshire Yorkshire lad with a thick dilect, he is strange to say a driver with the transport section and was given no credit of knowing much first aid, but dear me he is easily the best demonstrator we have in the Corps. To-day he lectured on the circulation of the blood and in such of a practical (though by no fluent) way that he did much better than any of the Doctors have yet done. He is a surprise packet, although his power as a wrestler xxxx were known. The afternoon parade in full marching order was very dull indeed. A few of the fellows drew their pay of 11/- I could have done so, but am leaving it run. I am very worried over "Zelda" to-day. I try to take and keep from her but, alas, I cannot! Yet I don't quite know whether its real affection or longing, but its got me down. All sealed correspondence has now to scaease cease (stop) and much speculation exists as to what has become of letters posted 4 days ago. They are mighty particular just now and since the New Zealand fleet came in. Their transport are painted the same colour of as the convoy while Australian ships are any old colour at all.As I sit writing thesenotes a fellow came in fromthe dry canteen with a bottle ofLemon Squash at 2/- heopened it and drank a considerableportion as it came fromthe bottle, his mates camealong and in horrible languagehe told of the lack of cigarettesmatches and cigars at thecanteen, also cakes. Hehardly finished when he rushedaway vomiting vigorously.There are a number of thesegluttonly fellows about and thewretches are alway squeakingabout everything and everybody.I tried to go to sleep lastnight before 9 o clock butmy hammock was bumpedby every devil that passedto lazy were they to stoop,Then the schoolboy chatterand shouting went on allaround. I promised myselfthat I would never again goto bed early and therefore becompelledto lay there and listen to suchtorment.I don't seem to get any funout of things at all. I just wantto read and write. I cannotfind words to express myselffreely and my mind cravesfor peace and quietness, butalas its not to be had aboard