Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 15th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 15th. Wednesday.It was more than a surprise to get out of thewaggon this morning and view the surroundings. More thana surprise, yes; it was almost startling to see around uswhole lines of big healthy trees towering 60 feet and moreinto the air, and those devoid of foliage were without amissing limb or branch, indeed trees intact and commandedby Winter. Old Winter has had his sway here but up aheadwhere we have been living for only 16 days, but livingclosely and keenly to the surroundings, made me forget allelse in the whole world. For was this not our world, ourworld to live hour by hour and look ahead not for a spaceof minutes? German shells forbade anything of the kind,and in living those 16 days amongst desolation with not atree out of thousands but what was mangled and broken, norwas there a blade of grass for miles and miles around.Therefore to suddenly wake up after a night's journey of afew short miles and see unharmed and full limbed trees towering - 13 - overhead and around with patches of short green grassunder foot and away as far as the mist allowed my visionto penetrate, was indeed a grand and unusual sight.Safely back again from the firing line midst natures owneffects. German and British shell fire has robbed hoaryold Winter of his labour. He has been frustrated andbaulked by the mad raving and the chemical compounds of man.All day until 2 o'clock we were on the way to therest station and our present camp at Buire. There is somethinglight-hearted and exhilarating about coming away fromthe firing line. Something of a thankfulness, something ofa charm, of glory and achievement.I drew 3-4-6 at the pay office and had my firstglance at our new Colonel Williams who has taken the placeof a very good men, Colonel Shaw, and I hope he will makea success of it and keep the spirit of the men intact bynot allowing or insisting upon the foolish ceremonial dutiesthat every Australian abhors and which made the mendisheartened and careless in their work.The Germans have been dropping bombs around thisspot regularly of late. One night a bomb killed 6 andwounded 20 men mostly patients. A remarkable thing alsowas the fact that one morning two Germans were seen walkingcarelessly about here, and later came and gave themselves up.It appears that their machine had engine trouble and theycame down and gave themselves up.