Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 13th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 13th. Tuesday.A lecture with VISUAL TRAINING for the subject will be givenby the officers after dinner to-night. In the practical work I- 17 -fancy my work would pass. But theoretical work as laid down inMusketry No. 1 will probably beat me if called out to speak uponit to-night. I will fight on, however, and have gathered togetherthe following:--The foremost point appears to be the stimulation of eachsoldiers powers of discernment and recognition of ranges and distances.Visual training will include a general study of reconnaissance.Targets must be recognised by word of mouth so as toaccquaint men with an easy mode of description which may necessitatethe use of more or less technical terms.Owning to the different formations of the country here inFrance, such as villages, woods, valleys and plains, each day orhour bringing forward a change of light effects continual study isessential in the ranging of sights and the recognition of objects.Men trained on the plains of Australia in observing and judgingthe distance of wild turkey will be lost in the forest and scrub country near the coast or over water and hills.The tendency of modern warfare is invisability. The uniformsare make of colours that coincide with the natural surroundings, andmen are also trained to take advantage of same. Smokeless powderadds to the difficulties of observation.In our army there are two kinds of men the city, and thecountry man. The former is considered the more intelligent, buthe has not been trained to look long distances ahead and to be asobservant or as good a judge of numbers or distance as is thecountry man.Glasses have the advantage of examinating what the men haveseen with the naked eye, and therefore are useful in checking theirfaults in discernment.Four very important headings should be remembered in connectionwith "Visual Training" they are B.O.E.R. and mean respectivelyBarrack training, Open air training, Explaination and Recognition.Morning parade.Platoon drill 1 hourMusketry 1 "Bombing 1 " - 18 -Afternoon Parade.Lewis gun parts and stripping.Company in attack, practice.Lecture by Colonel Hore at 5.30 on "Machine Gun Tactics".The Colonel was well up with his subject and explained clearlyon the blackboard the best positions for the most effective use ofa Vickers gun in some open warfare and how ground that cannot becovered by these big guns should be covered by the Lewis gun, orwire barrackades built to turn the raiders or attackers onto thezone of fire. Concealment is the essential point and guns shouldbe used on the flanks as far as is possible.One Vickers is equal to 50 men and with it there is not thesame difficulty as with rifles in the concentration of fire.The Vickers has a great advantage over the Lewis in that ithas a revolving platform and is water cooled. The Lewis holds anadvantage in being easily handled and carried about; particularlyin an attack. Here it can be employed as an offensive weapon whilethe Vickers is a defensive weapon. Only under extreme conditioncan it assist in an attack, that is when the objective is up theside of a hill or fast rising slope, then it can keep the enemysheads down until our men are upon them.