Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 11th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 11th Saturday.It is wonder that I have not previouslymentioned chilblains herein, as I have two feet each withfrom 4 to 6 very sore spots on them. There seems butlittle to do with them but use iodine. Iodine and soda-salare the two and only remedies in the military worldno matter what your trouble is its one or the other orpossibly both. At night time my chilblains trouble memost. Dozen of fellows around are troubled with them.The stretcher bearers when resting are quarteredin three long narrow improvised tents say 26 feet long and12 feet wide, with the sides pegged to the ground. Well,last night, while there were some 20 men sleeping insidea big German shell broke through the side breaking the crossbeam and exploding in the ground right at the heads of themen asleep on the opposite side to the shell's entry. Thismorning when I went up to see, the edge of the deep shellcrater was inside the covering of the tent and underneathwhere the men's heads were resting, and it is hardlyconceived to believe that not a person was injured. Amiracle!! I "pictured" the scene and as I broke the staysof the camera I will have to go without the use of it now.It is past midnight but I must chronicle somethingherein as I want my mind tomorrow to write up a few Xmasletters for the mail closing the same day, and to write asI most desire to do it is necessary to forget much of oursordid surrounding and work. To-night I brought down somerather severe cases in my waggon and the groans and shoutsof pain haunt me and I believe will haunt me regardless of my desire to draw a screen over my experience in conjunctionwith the handling of bad cases on bad roads and other hideousfeatures.The day has been very misty and without sufficientlight for aeroplane or balloon observations and yet our gunshave been sending over barrage after barrage of fire for Fritzto juggle with several times during the day. As I now writethe guns are rumbling in dozens and the noise reminds me of theold rainbow quartz crushing mill on Ch. Towers. None of thosestampers could be heard falling, neither could one particulargun or any one gun heard in putting up a barrage. Theyjust rumble along for 20 minutes or an hour and then steadyoff.To-night shell fell around our stand at the Dump.One hit a heap of sand-bags and blew them about for 150 yards.Those sand-bags were on the wires and up the trees, yes!bags everywhere. A man is jolly lucky to live for very longin this area no matter where he is or what he is doing.In the Pozieres battle it was the shell shock casesthat seemed the most helpless and wasted, here in Longueval -Bopume its the "trench feet" men that seem so much wastage anddead loss. They are in a pitiful plight to have, and we have,mostly, to carry them as they cannot bear to put a foot on theground at all and suffer greatly.