Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 6th March 1916. Nationality: Australian. March 6th, 1916. Tuesday.Morning 9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.Squad Drill and Physical Drill:--A whole lot of time was spent in checking the bumping andgaps that occurr while on the march or in changing alignment ofalmost any kind. While on the march is is often necessary to movefrom fours to two and even single file. When getting back intotwo or fours always halt or mark time in front so as to allowthe back men to get into their places in comfort and in a goodhumour then see that they all move off together at the command"Quick March". Especial notice must be taken of the blank filein the forming of fours. I learnt quite a lot of points aboutsquad drill and also physical drill.Afternoon. A lecture on Map Reading by Major Harris from2 p.m. until 3 p.m. Then followed the making of a sketch in oneown fashion only that it must include the features lay down byour instructor, such as a Road crossing a River, a Railway crossingthe river with a tunnel and cutting, a village with Wells, Churchand Post Office, Trenchs with wire and communication trenches aswell as anything else one wishes to insert.At 4 p.m. musketry with rifles by our instructor, He wentover the rifle carefully and pleasingly.5 p.m. a lecture on "Trench Warfare" by Major Harris. Takingfor his main lines the following:--No. 1 Protection (a) Advanced posts. (b) Patroles." 2 Reports and Sketches." 3 Mopping up. (a) sentry posted on each dugout and cellars. (b) clear up dugouts. (c) Search for Machine Gun positions. (d) " " " Mines." 4 Consolidation (a) conversion of trench and construction of new line.- 8 - (b) communication trenches. (c) fortification of forward and strong posts. (d) bomb blocks. (e) dumps. (f) dugouts.No. 5 Connection." 6 Exploitation (fighting patroles (tactical points" 7 Information:--documents and prisoners. " 8 Salvage:--cleaning up etc.The Major started by explaining that the formation of aplatoon or company in attack is now undergoing alteration and cannot be clearly dealt with just now.After a trench is captured, however, procetion must at oncebe considered and carried out. This will be done chiefly by pushingadvanced posts ahead and in turn protecting them by patroles.These advanced posts may be required to be be connected to maksup a new firing line as the enemy will have the artillery rangeof same to perfection. Patrols should be accompanyed .by anofficer who will make sketches and take notes to hand into theCoy. commander, also, he must be clear in his detailing of theposition occupied by his platoon. The Coy. commander in turn willmust report to Br. Hdqs. and if possible submit sketches, in arough way. These sketches can be made up before the attackcommences and then be filled up afterwards. Later on a more completereport will be sent in by Coy. commander.Moppers up must look carefully about for dugouts post asentry and then get busy clearing them out. Another party ofmoppers up must look for machine gun positions (hidden probably)and keep a sharp out look for wires which may be connected withmines.Care must be taken in holding an enemys fire trench. Firstlythe artillery will bombard it, and it may not on the other handhold a good fire position. So that is most cases it is vantageous to make a new line altogether in advance. A strong postis not necessarily forward of the line, it may be behind as longas to field of fire is good and will enable a counter attack to bechecked.Block up the enemys communication trench for 40 yards, so - 9 -that he cannot throw bombs, with old wire or anything that willtake a lot of digging out again. Put a squad of bombers againstthe block and behind them a Lewis gun to prevent the enemy crossing the block.Defensive tactics are the basis of what consolidation reallymeans. A good supply of bombs must be on hand.Exploitation:--Prisoners have often stated that the Britishhave missed big opportunities by not pushing further ahead whenattacking. Therefore it is essential to exploit the ground aheadbefore settling down.Salvage:--This would come in later by collecting carefullyall equipment and loose material to prevent wastage and form dumps.