Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 12th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 12th SundaySunday again, but as far as we here are concernedit might be any day at all. There has been not slightestindication of the day. Just as well too, as we don't wish tohave such days as these counted out and served up to us one ata time. Oh no, better by far to let them go uncounted even if not entirely forgotten.It has been a dull day and the night also is dullwith a think moist fog hanging heavily, but it it not cold. - 7 -There have been no showers of rain now for four whole days.The roads are dry in patches, and then frightly heavy andsticky. In and around the transport lines it is difficultto draw one's feet out of the gluey mud. I hope it willcontinue dry for a week so as to clean the front trenchesout. It is disheartening to think that two hours' rainwill make those trenches almost as horrid as ever again.Our men, also the Germans, in moving about from trench totrench or communication way, invariably choose to do soover the top, exposed to snipers, rather than wade throughthe 2 feet and even 3 feet of slimy water. A very largenumber of our men are "knocked" this way. It seems thatthe trenches are quite "safe" providing fellows do notrecklessly expose themselves. The greatest danger seemsto be in parties being relieved and passing to and from thefront line to the back. To-night we got a large number ofmen from the Ath Division who were going up to the line forthe first time. The travelling ways seem to be picked outduring the day time and at dusk bombarded at short intervalsfor a few hours.There has not been the same congestion of trafficin Longueval for days and judging by the stocks of projectileswaiting at the great number of 8 or 9 inch guns scatteredhaphazardly about there is going to be something doing erelong. These distributed piles standing out unprotected inthe open account for the easing of the heavy motor traffic.These guns are not "dug in", they stand up clear and strong,but over the top is a screen of wire netting with bits ofbag screwed in here and there. I notice also that wirenetting screens are being used instead of hessin to coverfrom German view, roads and travelling ways. It does notlook at all effective from down here and near to them, butfrom an aeroplane or observation balloon this flimsy means -8 -of covering up must be very effective on results achieved.Harry Dingle tells me that he saw a German 77fire seven shots at one man and follow him along for 300yards eventually "knocking" him. The man was Dr. Little,7th Battalion. Another unique experience of his was tohave machine guns turned on to himself and party when theywere building a dugout, from a Taub machine flying overheadduring the middle of a clear sunny day. The German airmenare very daring indeed. At night on the 7th or 8th Novemberthey destroyed a very large pile of French ammunition destinedfor the Poronne bombardment. Later they dropped bombs on ahospital and rest station 4 miles back. One bomb landed ona large tent and killed 6 and wounded 20 ; all Australianstoo.