Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 29th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 29th. Thursday.Morning Parade:--Scheme of Defense (lecture) " " practice and sketch.Afternoon Parade:--Discussion of this morning scheme by MajorHarris.Football match against 4th Division School.1st won 9 - 0.1700 Lecture on Correspondence by Capt. Fay.After dinner lecture. Prismatic Compass.The morning scheme was laid down, as follows. Enemy atSt. Savious. N. Brigade to hold front from "B" in Braillyto windmill West of St. Vaast.X. Bn. from right bank of River Somme to Wood 1 mile Southof St. Vaast."Y". Bn. on the right of "X." B. and "W" on left."A" Coy. X. Bn from the right to 100 yds. N of La Chassee. RoadB. Coy. X. Bn 100 yds. of La Chassee Rd. to "C" in Roman Camp.Line to be held at all cost.Lecture "Correspondence" Capt. Fay.Strict attention must be paid to every detail regardingmilitary correspondence. The different forms and kinds ofcorrespondence in Military affairs have to be carefully considered.It is very necessary also to keep correspondencedown to a minimum, as is must alway be borne in mind thatDivision has some 10 Battalions to deal with and it meansan immense amount of correspondence.All letters addressed to a higher command should be on1/4 margin "fool's cap" paper, and at the head of the lettermust be stated the roughly what is concerned in the letter body. Also at the top should be written who the letter isfrom and who to, at the bottom only rank and name shouldappear. Prompt handing and answering of letters dependsupon how they at addressed and to ensue their getting intothe right department right away instead of being sent firstfrom one to the other of the departments for claim and recognition.Any matter concerning either Brigade or Division shouldnever be addressed to any particular officer. Many mistakesare caused by wrong use of words; for instant, Battn iscommonly used for Battalion or correctly Bn. so that anycorrespondence so directed falls into the hands of the artillerydepartment.The "Afterdinner Lecture" was given over to Capt. Voeveleswho had considerable trouble in explaining the "PrismaticCompass". But he did give a whole lot of valuable informationconcerning same.