Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 1st November 1914. Nationality: Australian. Sunday November 1st 1914 At 6 a.m. the flagship"Orvieto" was seen to beunder weigh, other transportwere also animated withpreparation and as theflagship picked out a coursethrough the centre of the35 waiting vessels she wasfollowed in line by firstone and another until ourturn came to take up theprocession at 600 yd. intervalsWe lay 17th. and everyman on the ship stood atattention as we passedseveral of our own transportsand the 10 waiting N Zealanders.The Maorilanders gaveus a haka and manyrounds of cheers as we passedquickly by, we, underinstructions, had to remainat "attention" and not uttera sound in acknowledgement of to our Southerncomrades greetings.It was a mighty solumnprocession, not a rippledisturbed the ocean, orwind the stillness; eventhe dull, sulkin huedsurroundings landscapeseemed more disquieting &displeased even made therays of lovely sunshine whicheven the bright sunbeamsand the clear blue sky didnothing to clear up the dolefulscene. The granite rockformations and islands thatshelter St. George's Sound showedup many fantastical, weirdshapes, but they did notattempt to break the silenceof the this inspiring departure. 35 transports and a convey(which we have only seen 4 of)all running in single file and nota murmur not a gun shotor whistle, no, not even abugle call, the low soundingtrumpet was used to bring usto "attention', "Attention"ment every man standingwith head erect and handsdown to the sides, the menleaning against the rails hadto stand clear, and whenthe N. Zealanders cheeredus it was indeed tryingto remain still.There were a few light craftabout, in one a womancontinued to wave her handkerchiefenthusiastically to giveus encouragement on ourvoyage of legalised murderThe whole business seems almostunbelievable. 35 ships ladenwith men and weapons, some30,000. in number, and including some of the countrys very bestmen and most valuable valuable assetsThere is something wrong with theworld.This is how we sailed outfrom Albany, in mournfulprocession, and for a destinationunknown, and enshoured enshrouded inmystery. making a course Westerly.It was 6 o'clock when the "Orveito" first moved off and about8 a.m. the last vessel wasalso under weigh.Church service was heldat 11.30 when the Chaplaintried to justify the Allay's positionand asked God for protectionand deliverance. The irony ofit all. What hypocisity.Surely this great God, if he has the power to influence thevictory in any particular, wouldalso have had the power tohave prevented it in thevery first and before liveswere sacrificed. Lives asvaluable and as necessity tothe very living of many familiesas God himself ever hoped tosave when he allowed himselfto be crucified. It seems tobe a difference (present war) thatman alone can settle, andmight take precedence over right.We have been anchoredjust outside the entrance toAlbany for 6 long days &never saw a sign of the townuntil it appeared on the sideof a hill for some minutes onlyas we took the outwardpassage.We are now 8 hours outfrom Albany and travelingslowly in three files, withthe "Euripides" on the rightflank "Orvieto" in the centreand the Wiltshire on the leftAs far as we can see thereare three ships of war, oneon each side and one leading,their identie identity is unknownat present, to the mass any rate.The day has been showeryand the decks quite miserableIt is a misty kind of nightand very little of the otherboats can be seen thoughit makes an impressivesight in the daylight.We are not running withmasked lights and shouldsoon be off Cape Leeuwin.I am getting quite a bookworm, and play cards tobreak the monoteny, solo whist.