Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 1st April 1918. Nationality: Australian. April 1st. Sunday.In the examination on the following paper, time timeallowed was 3 hours and no warning of contents given.Examination paper for Officers at the conclusion of 4th Course1st. Aust. Div. Infantry School. Tirancourt.No. 24Notes.i Read the whole paper through carefully beforebefore attempting to answer any of the questions.ii The maximun marks for each question 10.iii In the first question either (a) or (b) will beanswered; not both.iv It is expected that the paper will be finished in3 hours, but if a longer time is required it willbe allowed. In any case the paper should be completedbefore handed in and in every case theSupervisor will mark on each paper the time takentaken by the Student.v Each Officer will be given a number. He will writehis number on the top right hand corner of eachsheet and each enclosure, but his name will notappear on any part of the paper.vi Write clearly and on the side of the paper only. Arrange your papers in order and number each sheetconsecutively at the top of the page in the middle,and fasten them together in the left hand top corner.vii Retain the examination paper and hand it to yourCompany Commander when you return to your unit.Questions.1. (a) What do you understand by the term moral?By what signs would you detect a decreasing moralamongst your own men, and how would you seek toimprove it?(b) What are the characteristics which distinguishwell disciplined troops from ill-discipilined troops.2. Show by a genealogical tree the centralisationof controle and delegation of command in a Battalion.What are the cheif duties of:-(a) The Senior Major?(b) Company Second in Command?(c) Pioneer Sergeant?(d) Cook Sergeant?3. (a) What are the best methods of judging distance(including range-finders)?(b) Under what circumstances are the ranges of objectsunder-estimated?4. Mark clearly on the attached map all the watercoursesWest of the Ancre and North of an East andWest line through Senlis.5. The bank at V18 a.5.8. North of Senlis Mill isoccupied by the enemy as a post in an outpost linerunning N.E. and S. x through V.12 central with postsat road junction V.18.a 40.13 and V.12.d.1.3.Our outpost line runs through P 29.d.-Senlis.-V.14.c. You are in command of an out-post Companyin Senlis and are ordered to take the enemy's postat V.18.a.5.8. How would you do it?6. Show in detail on the attached Diagram X one ofx W? the normal formations suitable for the attack andcapture of the enemy trenches between A. and B. andC. and D. by one Company.7. Say what you know about "Night Marches."The following headings will help. General PrincipalsWhen and why taken how covered etc. General Rules.Guides, Secretcy, noise, formations, precautions,pace etc.Guiding columns in open country by night.8. What are the duties of an Out-post Comm.9. You are detailed in command of an advance partyto take over a section of trench. What are youduties?10. State briefly in order of time as far as possiblethe steps you would take as Company Comm. aftercapturing an objective.There were 38 officers sitting down to the above paper,and the points allotted ranged from 82 down to 24. I was ifanything pleased to secure 54 points and thereby come intoa position of 19th. on the list.Lewis Gun.Calibre 303 inches.Weight 25 1bs. " of Bipop. 2 " " Magazine empty 1 lb. 11 ozs. " " full 4 " 5 "Magazine holds 47 rounds.It is worked by two forces:--i.e.(1) The action of the Gas resulting from the explosion.(2) The Return Spring.-----Parts----stationary.Butt Gas ChamberPistol Grip Gas Regulator and KeyBody Cover Gas CylinderBody Barrel Mouth PieceRadiator Casing Clamp Ring.RadiatorBarrel (Moving parts are)PistonBolt.Feed arm Actuating StudFeed Arm, Pinion, Return Spring.Description of Parts (Stationary).Butt:--On the front end is the Butt Cap which has on it a boss,with four lugs to lock in the rear of the Body. On top is aflange which prevents the Body Cover from coming to the rear.On the bottom is a recess for the Butt Catch.Pistol Grip.It has a wooden grip shaped for the fingers. On the topit has two channels to fit underneath the Body. It is alsogrooved out to take the Trigger, Sear, Plunger and Spring.On the front end is a recess for the Pinion Pawl and at therear end is the Butt Catch.Body Cover.Underneath it has three lugs on either side, to lock inthe lugs on the Body. On the front are two Pawls called theright and the left stop pawls No. 1 being the left. No. 2 theright. They are both worked by the one double action spring.On top of the Body Cover is a Tangent Sight which is dovetailedon and held by a screw.with an Apature Sight worked by a milled head and screw. Onthe front end is the tongue which holds the Cartridge GuideSpring Body.Body.It screws into the end of the Barrel with a Square Thread.It is drilled internally in two places, one is for the Boltand the other for the Piston. The Bolt Way is grooved to forma crusiform. On the front end of this is a recess to take thelugs of the Butt. On the left side of the Bolt Way is theEjector opening through which the empty cases pass. The PistonWay has a flat bottom to take the flat of the Rack. This hasthree openingssear to engage in the bent in the Rack. The round one is aclearance for the Plunger and the front one allows the Pinionto engage in the Rack. It is also grooved out to take the Pistol Grip. On the front end is a housing for the BodyLocking Pin. At the rear of this is the Hinge pin, on whichthe Pinion Casing hooks. On top of the Body is the MagazinePost. Behind this is the Cartridge Way. On either Side arethree lugs which lock with the Cover. On either side of theBody are side plates which act as safety catches.Barrel.It is tapered from rear to front and fits into theRadiater. It has fourOn the front end is a left handed thread to take the BarrelMouth-piece. Four inches from the end is a hole called theGas Post. On the rear face is the Cartridge Rim Stop, whichprevents the Cartridge from going into the Chamber too far.On top at the rear is a positioning stud, which ensues thatthe Barrel is in a correct position. There is also a Squarethread to screw into the Body.Radiator.It is made of aluminium for two reasons. Its lightnessand it dissipates heat. It has 17 flanges, thus having agreater cooling surface to the air. On top at the rear is aflat, which allows the magazine to revolve. Underneath it isgrooved to take the Gas Cylinder, in front of this is a squarehole to take the Gas Chamber. It is split from end to end toallow for the expansion of the Barrel.Gas Chamber.It is attached to the Barrel Band which fits over thebarrel at the Gas Post. The exterior of the chamber screwsinto the Chamber and a nipple fits into the Gas Post. The GasRegulator Screws into the Chamber and has a large and smallhole with the letters L. and S. to show which hole is in therear. The Regulator is held in position by the Gas RegulatorKey. The Gas Cylinder Screws into the rear face of theChamber under normal conditions the small hole of the GasRegulator should always be to the rear.Radiator Casing.It is in two parts front and rear. They are both milled and browned so as to deflect the light. The front portionstapered to allow the gas to form a partial vacuum. The rearportion at the rear has three openings, the large one beingfor the Barrel one for the Gas Cylinder and the small one forthe housing for the Body Locking Pin. At the front underneathare two openings.Clamp Ring.It fits over the Radiator Casing and binds. The endsprotect the fore sight which is dovetailed onto the block.Moving Parts.Piston.It is in two parts held together by a movable joint, whichallows for any want of alinement between the Body and the GasCylinder. The front end is called the Rod and has a cuppedhead to receive the Gas and behind it is four Anular ringswhich tend to lessen friction and prevent the escape of Gas.The rear portion is the Rack which has 60 teeth to engage inthe teeth of the Pinion. At the rear of the Rack is a bent inwhich the sear engages. On top at the rear is the Striker Postwhich carries the Striker and the Bolt. Underneath is theslot for the Cocking Handle. Into the rear of the Bolt screwsthe feed arm actuating Stud. This has four lugs which worksin the Crusiform of the Body. On the top lug is a boss whichworks in the groove of the Feed Arm. The Bolt also has fourlugs which turn into the recess of the Bolt Way and take theshock of discharge. There are two Extracters which are sprunginto the side also the Cam slot of the Bolt in which theStriker Post works. Two openings of the head of the Bolt: thesmall one on the left is is for the head of the Ejector andthe other for the passage of the empty case and there is alsothe Striker Way.