Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 18th - 19th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 18th. Sunday.Morning parade:--1 hours ceremonial drill.Last Sunday we were instructed in taking Post on aBattalion Parade. To-day it was Marching post a saluting base.It is all very instructive and valuable.March 19th. Monday.Morning parade:--Company drill.Bayonet fighting.Bombing in squads up a trench.Afternoon parade:--Reconnissance (report and sketch.)Skirmishing.Lecture "Grenades."5 o'clock lecture on "Supply" by Major Milne D.S.O.of A.S.C.To-day is my turn as Orderley Officer. I seem to havedone my duties to satisfaction, though not with the confidencewith comes of knowledge and a soldierly bearing.Company drill controled by Major Harris was a very goodlesson to me.The report and sketch of a blank piece of country was adifficult task and seemed to trouble all of the officers. Mineattempt did not please me a bit but the time was very limitedand there was no strong features in the area for reconnissanceand report.The lecture was a distinct failear that is as far aslearning anything new about "Mills grenades."Major Milne seemed to have a nothing in the way of anexplaination to make showing that his Supply Department was amarvelous organation and no shortage of ration could on any account be traced home to his part in the business of gettingup the rations from the "Base" at Havre. He certainly showedus that there were many difficulties surrounding the feedingof so large a body of men. And explained away some indefinitepoints. He gave the daily ration per man and told us that weget this ration which is ridiculous. If the ration is notissued it is due to stealing and negligence on the part ofthe Q.M.Daily Ration."As it leaves the Base."Meat. 1 lb. fresh meat or 9 ozs. Bully tin per man.60% of this ration is forwarded only per day, andmade up by Bully, Sardines, et.Bread. 1 lb of bread or lb. of biscuits.75% is drawn only 25% biscuits. This is the preventwastage in the event of large casualities.Bacon. 4 ozs. daily.Cheese. 3 " "Jam. 3 " for 6 days, dried fruit one day.Sugar. 3 ozs.Milk 1/12 tin per man.Vegetables. 2 ozs. dried or lb. fresh.Rum. 1/64th. gallon.Butter. 2 ozs. 3 times week.Salt. Pepper. Mustard. Pickles. Maches.Tobacco and cigarettes 2 ozs. weekly.Extra trench rations tea and sugar 2 ozs. soup.Iron rations 1 tin bully tea sugar 1 lb. biscuits.Especial stress was placed on the necessity for preservingiron rations and holding onto them until the last possiblemoment, particularly now that the lines of communication arebeing lengthened.