Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 13th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 13th. Monday.The dishonesty and love for thieving in the Armyis striking, but with the transport sections, particularlyof Australian units, its a horror. It seems that no mancan be reasonably trusted with his mate's rations. Everyman for himself seems to be the motto. It is most noxiousto me to find the narrowness and unworthyness of most men.Yesterday I posted some 20 letters and Xmas Greetingsas well as two cheques to Australia and I feel now free to goon with an article on my visit to London, also my observationsat Longueval.It is not 6 a.m. yet and I am on the Flers Road.A huge motor waggon is unloading duckboards and the Tommysin their own particular and peculiar parlance are talkingand shouting bad temperedly at one another as they areanxious to get back out of the quarter to their rest.The many batteries of 18-pounders have justcommenced to fire rapidly and continuously making a perfectbedlam. - 9 - The morning is foggy and each of the dozens anddozens of flashes strike out on to the misty atmosphere inflares of light not so vivid perhaps as vicious lightning,but being right up against us as it is it dazzles a fellowand amazes him with its novel picturesqueness and its wonderfulintensity and cheers him with the strange feeling ofsatisfaction that Fritz is getting it hot and strong. Thesebursts of rapid fire are probably barrages, and can be heardover periods of 25 minutes at different times and in differentdirections around our horse-shoe position during the day andnight. This burst of fire at this moment may be followed upby our infantry in an attack, or maybe it is just a barrageon the German trenches and over on to his communication waysto get him relieving his men from the front line and bring upfresh troops from behind. I would so much love to know whatit is but there is no way of finding out. Even the artillerymen don't know what they are firing at. They are given therange by figures and set the guns but what for they don'treally know.Again to-night an infantry chap swore that many ofour own shells fall behind and even into our own trenchesand wildly around.The fire has now decreased to a shot every fewseconds and individual reports can now be heard after 15minutes of nothing but a roar and rattle.The day has been dull and passed away without anyspecial note.Just the other day one of the farriers of the 2ndField Ambulance here in Longueval picked up an old 4-2 shelland although the fellow left Australia with the first contingent,he put that shell into the forge fire to cut away thecopper band for a souvenir, after failing with a hammer and - 10 -chisel while cold. He turned away at the fan blowing thefire up when there was a terrific explosion. The forgewas in fragments and strangely none of the four men aroundwere injured. There was a bit of the charge remaining.