Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 24th October 1914. Nationality: Australian. Saturday Oct 24thI have written an 8page letter to Mary Ffrenchwhich contains astounding profound language & Spring delights.I went out on deck thismorning at 6. a.m. and hada run around, but I don'tfeel like excessing, my musclesdo not work as freely as ofyore. I wonder if it is dueto the past 12 months troublesaround Sydney, or Manly inparticular. I hardly thinkso as I was not livelyin South Africa last trip(1913). My back seemsto go a little wrong at theslightest twist, just aboutthe pelvis region.I walked the deck withSullivan for 40 minutes thismorning and let him talkon the necessary ability ofcommercial travellingthe free-masonary thatexists, for instance, themen sometimes meet andwork together and if oneman leaves the party andrushes on ahead he is oftenbranded as a pointer.This may possibly existamongst the 2nd andpoorer class, talkative &swelled headed traveller.with whom Sullivanevidently associates.He mentioned that whenMurphy (a solicitor now amember of the A.M.C) wascalled up on the telephone& told that there was avacancy in the sectionMurphy wired, "Present atcourt but will report at2pm." That afternoon Murphy was out drilling in the ranks. George Hills case was similar he was confidential clerk in a large solicitors office drawing 4.15.0 a week, he came out & saw Dr. Newmarsh at 9 o'clock one morning next day he was plain Private Hill drilling & sleeping with a lot of unthinking xxx worthless kind of fellows. Washing one cloths as xxxx on board is a terrible proposition under such extreme difficulties There are, I understand, some 14 cases of venereal disease at present in the isolation hospital, and it is said to be a small number for as many men. The shipping company have contracted to provide the men with food at 1/9 per day sargents at 3/6. The clippers have been hard at work getting the fellows heads cleared I will, at the first opportunity, get my head cleared right off it will prevent one from becoming lousy. I've heard there is are a number of lousy men in the infantry already. The Bag-pipers & the brass band are well appreciated each day & night when playing of from the promenade deck to the crowd in the aft well deck. The concerts given off the same place are good but under extreme difficulties. There are 10 cases in the general hospital and from 25 to 40 out door patients called for treatment this morning. The following lines from Munsey's Magazine struck me as. being strangely fitting to my own state of uneasiness. An Idyl of Idleness I cannot work in the City That prison of brick & stone, Where distraction waits at the outer gates And speaks through the telephone. The labours labors of men only vex me; The pleasures of men tempt me sore, And I fret and whine for the smell of pines pine And the sound of the sea on the shore shore. __________ I cannot work in the country There's so much else to be done; The flowers I've sown see that I am alone And beckon me into the sun, The waves roar a hearty welcome; There is lure in the shade of each tree, "I could slave", I say, "were I hidden away With nothing but walls to see!" I cannot work on the ocean It is easy to understand How that swaying deep rocks the will to sleep ; But I cannot work on the land. I know I am not an idler I could drudge were the conditions fair ; But Summer reigns in my tingling veins, And I can't work anywhere!