Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 30th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 30th. Friday.Morning Parade:--Lecture on Attack in Open War.Advance Guards (Practice).Lecture, Lewis Gun.Lecture, Intelligence.Interview by General Walker.Afternoon Parade:--Examination Paper 3 hours.Company In Attack (open warfare),By Major Harris.Starting from a Coy. marching in column (just entered intoa zone of heavy artillery fire) forming up artillery formation.Three points of consideration while in artillery formation.Going over a skyline. It is more dangerous to halt troopsthan to keep on moving. If you must halt, then get into asheltered corner or fold in the ground, then men should kneeldown as they will then offer a less exposure to shrapnel fire.H.E. is not very dangerous. Then by lying down the men aremore difficult to get up again to move on, and there is alsoa false sense of security.Once a Coy, is extended it loses very largely all power of quick handling.1st Phase; The breaking up of a column into artilleryformation.2nd. Extended Order as the body draws nearer.3rd. Commencing the fire fight followed by the bayonetassult.The fire fight may begin at a range of 1300 to 1400 yardsbut it will frequently be possible to get within 8, or 900yards and even closer before opening fire. Covering fire isbest made by the Lewis guns. The best support one Coy. orPlatoon can give another is to advance and ease their pressureinstantly. Rifle strength should one per yards in attackingor holding a position.During a fire fight troops should on no account be allowedto dig in as, by so doing the advance is delayed and thisshould always be carefully avoided.Reorganisation should be at once commenced after anattack which succeeds or not. But be careful not to reorganiseon the line the enemy were griven from as their artillerywill have it marked.When one line reinforces another line they must notstop but keep on going and be joined up by the forward linemoving ahead together.4 cheif features:--Advance in Artillery formationBreak down to Skirmishing orderFire fightingBayonet assult.Lecture on Lewis Gun.1861 Gattling gun invented.1866 French machine was invented but the war officekept it secret so long that nobody know how to use it whenthe war came on. It had an autamatic feed with 30 or 40barrels.Shields are used on their present guns by most othernations but the British. This shields in some cases are veryheavy, and we find that a gun cannot be affetively concealedor does the shield protect the gun from cross or enfiladefire. The Lewis Gun can effectively fire 300 round per minute,although its rate of fire per min is equal to 700. A manonly fires 12 shots a minute so that a Lewis Gun is equalin fire strenght to 28 men with a distinct advantage in beingbetterly directed and more effective fire.Firing at 500 yards range the beaten zone of fire extendsover 200 yards represented as follows.TargetDiagram - see Original Document At 500 range 220 yards of fire 800 " 170 1,000 " 140 1,500 " 70At 500 " 2 ft. 1000 " 5 " 1500 " 10 ft.It is always better to sacrifice concealment for a goodfield of fire. A Lewis Gun can go anywhere that infantrymencan go.Always consider if, by firing your Lewis Gun and riskingthe exposure of gun position. If necessary to fire be surethat you get good value for your shots."Intelligence" by Capt. Maltby.Intelligence section should be carefully organised anddrawn from the best men of the ranks. 1 draughtsman 2 snipers2 observers 1 trained prismatic compass expert man etc.In trench warfare sniping is just as important asartillery fire in killing off the enemy. (In S. Africa ittook 2500 rounds to kill one men). Snipers should bbe selectedfor their keeness and ability, they must be truthful andseldom pull a trigger without killing. I have found thatwhen the enemy are shelling a careful observer can be almostcertain of finding the periscope of the enemy artilleryobserver and the sniper shoot it down. With a good telescopicsight it is almost impossible to miss. Ammunication variesvery much indeed some brands of American small arms arevery bad. The good brands are as follows. K.N. R.L. D.A.Bad and unreliable brands are U.S. J.K. Dont use wet cartridges or allow water in the barrellfor sniping as moisture increases the gas volume and liableto sexpose the position.General Walker called each officer into the orderleyroom separately and spoke to them according to the reportsubmitted on the work done by the instructors. Some reportswere bad and the officers plainly spoken to by the Generalaccordingly.To me he was very patient and remarked that I had donevery well seeing my inexperience and the severe handicap thatI have started off with in regards to infantry work. Heremarked that the trouble usually is that we youngsters dontread enough or take sufficient notice of the pamplets issuedfrom Division.The examination paper handed to us in the afternoonpresented a whole of probolems to me. I fought and struggledearnestly with each subject in turn and answered them inaccordance with my knowledge and the limited time at my disposalto answer. Some of the questions I could not clearlygrasp and could not ask anyone. I made a very grave mistake,now that I can recall the position in a calm atmostphere,but attacking an enemy post from the South and overlookingthe fact that there was another enemy post obstructing theway.The definition of a "Watercourse" beat me badly and asI could not find any running streams on the map I allowed itto pass on as a blank.Other questions I handled badly for want of time togather my thoughts, and grasp just what was wanted.