Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 5th March 1917. Nationality: Australian. March 5th. 1917. Monday.Parade in Sam Brown and haversack with towel and soap forBaths at 8.50 a.m. A good bath and return to Parade ground wherethe officers were drawn up in line and told how to stand toattention and turn to the right or left by numbers. The instructorwas clear and interesting; his remarks and detail being clearand well defined.We were first shown the correct position of "Attention":- -Heels together toes at an angle of 45 degrees knees well straightenedand hold back shoulders well back body braced chin well inand hands to side with fingers loosely closed.Especial stress is lain of the feet knees and chin alsoshoulders.Turning by numbers followed the squad calling loudly the time.This afternoon it was elemetary squad drill commencing withsaluting both to the front and in passing a given point. Officerswere called out of the line later to give commands and detail of"forming fours" marching 30 in. "step short" 2 etc.etc. Theafternoon was a little tiring but of much value to me even thoughboring to the older and trained men.In the matter of getting men to "Quick march" together andto take up their dressing when "falling in" or halted muchinstruction was given. The word of command in the "Quick March"is the essential matter. When a bad start is made such as allthe column not starting out together with the left foot, a haltshould be made seeing that the rear started off with the front."Right" "left" and about turning by numbers disclosed nothing newbut was a welcome refresher.At the 1.40 p.m. parade with "drill order" we went, 48 strong,back onto the drill ground were saluting by numbers was carried out and some remarks on the different styles of saluting froma cycle or horse.Then followed some marching tests, to show up how difficultit is to obtain a uniform step of 30 inches and also to getproper direction. Officers were called out of the squad to givedetail of points such as forming fours and changing directions.It was a good days tuition.At 5 o'clock all ranks listened to a lecture by Capt.Campbell on DISCIPLINE. He was forceful without being dramatic;and clear without any great flow of eloquence. He never laggedat any stage and was entertaining as well as instructive. Igathered the following notes from the lecture:--"Discipline in a broad sense means training and commonknowledge.In an Army there are two essentials that go towards themaking of efficiency; they are organisation and discipline.Organisation is for those in higher circles than we are placed in;but discipline comes right home to our own door and it is fordiscipline that we are entirely responsible for. From the lancecorporal right up through the N.C.O.s and the officers to thehead of the Battalion lies the road to good discipline. Eachsection commander must extract from his section a respect thatsmooths the way for the Platoon sergeant, and likewise thesergeant helps the platoon commander who is responsible for theplatoon's discipline to the Colonel.Historical facts shows clearly that good discipline meanssuccess. The Romans of early times paid strict attention todiscipline and by so doing conquored and held the world with easy,until they grew lax, lost their grip over their soldiers andcame down the hill of fame. Oliver Cromwell, Englands great andstrong man accounted for his success by hard and fast discipline.The Loyalists were overcome by Cromwell's superior discipline andeventually had to give way. Cromwell was the first man to train and equip a regular army.It is said Australian discipline, which we must all agreewith, is anything but good and is much commented upon by allmilitary authorities in Europe, who have seen them; It shouldbe a lot better. The personal element will not be injured orspoilt; by instilling better discipline, the opposite, in fact,will be the outcome as the personal element so valuable to afighting force is always their it is part of your nature and willnot be affected by discipline. Mercantile and commercial businesses, now seen on so large a scale, are insisting on discipline, inconjunction with organisation for the success of their affairs.What mark distinguishes the quality of the different troops?Behaviour and respect for authority. Too much personalrespect for ability and the man is considered by the men in theranks. They must be taught not to respect the individuality oftheir officers; but respect the position they hold in the army.Australians always avoid the necessarty for saluting when possible.Well discipline and trained troops will always salute properly andmove about with smartness seeing to the cleanlyness of theiruniform and equipment. The Guards for example are proud of theirspick and span appearance, and proud also to belong to a Regimentin which discipline is strict and a pleasure. Good troops aregood on parade. Australians are unwilling and sluggish on parade.Reluctant to do their best. It is necessary to check, and tellregularly, our men about smartness and appearance. Make themsee to their puttees, buttons, hats etc. Take a pride in yourplatoon and see that the men do also; Make them feel that theirCompany and Battalion should be the smartest and the best of themall.Endurance is brought out by discipline and training. Duringthe American Civil War the young bloods of the North formed themselvesinto keen armys but when they set out without training forthe front they soon emptied their water bottles got tired and wentto rags along the road a straggling, useless mob. Men must be - 6 - taught to carry and reserve their rations as well as take urgentcare over their water bottles. Australian marching is mostlyragged and disjointed. Men fall out at will solely from the wantof endurance instilled into them through discipline. With thepossibility of open warfare now being brought in, there is agreater need than ever for officers to have absolute controle overtheir men. Australians will have much difficult is retainingtheir fighting name in open war as they as so likely to get outof hand.Obedience: - - Instant obedience is essential and shows the powerwhich the officer has over his men, Men must not hesitate or showa reluctancy.Individuality must be strong enough to efficently hold men.This must be got through firmness in handling the men. Theproper use of authority is a factor in a good platoon. Dont besarcastic or nasty it irritates the good men and the bad onestake no notice of it. Jump right into them and tell them thecorrect way to do things and quitely check the faults by detailsand patience.Knowledge an officer or N.C.O. must have he cant possibilityhave too much of it and they must know all about their work andmore about it than the men underneath. Book learning is good, butthere must be observation, thought and careful study to completeone education.The least thing to rely upon for discipiline is punishment,such as extra parades and fatigues etc.Dont have likes and dislikes for particular men treat themall alike. Officers must hold themselves above other ranks andhave a diginity in keeping with the position they hold. Badlanguage to the men only display to them your own ignorance. Becareful of your own behaviour in your leisure hours especiallywhen outside or in the presence of lower ranks. Close order drillis the better for getting good discipline.The behaviour of your men either on the parade ground or onthe streets is a reflection of your own teaching. - 7 -Dinner at 6.30 p.m. and the evening is free.