Author: Frederick Harold Tubb. Date: 2 June 1915. Nationality: Australian. Wednesday June 2, 1915Hampton & Anderson turned up. Finedthem 2 days pay & 3 hours pack drill!Eller & Capt Robin have gone in onleave to fix up matters not completedyesterday. There is no official confirmationof the loss of the Implacable, so I supposeit is not true. All accounts of the Austdoings speak highly of their grandcourage and dash. I wonder ifAustralia has had all the news yet?A refugee camp is on the wayin to Alexandria. The folk thereseem all sorts of breeds. Many ofthe women are quite fair. Thereare a lot of Turks here, & many ofthe Egyptians are anti British also.The weather is very hot and our Campis very dusty. The horses are notlooking too well. A lot of them arefilling up in the legs, a dropsicalkind of swelling I don't like it. Thelight horses especially those that areclipped seem to stand it betterI suppose that the cooping up onthe boat for 6 weeks be the chiefcause of the trouble to the horses[[3?]]pm Quite a stir amongst the few men in the Camp. One of them has just been bitten bya scorpion ligatures were promptly appliedand I operated with th a razor. This is the3rd case of my men being bitten byscorpions since we came here. The effectsare serious. My batman was paralysedfor over 24 hours through a bite. Thescorpions are very big, in some casesabout 4inches long, like a fat crap with avery long sting. The horses are all outunder Lt. Bolton, & Mr Bain is away soI am in command temporaly.Thursday, I notice that Lt Berwick whojoined us on the Novian at Lemnosname is amongst the killed in thismornings Gazette. Made out size rollof men. We are drawing from ordnancejackets, trousers, helmets, boots, to dayThe clothing is much needed, many ofthe men are ragged! Went into Alexandria- at 10am. visited the Base officeat the Metropole hotel, got a "state" fromthere as followsField returndated 2/5/15Effective strength officers other ranks14 458War Establishment 32 994Wanting to complete 18 536Total casualties reported to date 3.6.15officers so0 30 other ranks 700 - includingkilled, died of wounds, wounded and missing The above does not include killed onthe field since 2/5/15 As there was thebig attack on the 8th of May & the Cape Hellescharge etc, goodness knows how we standat present! I went out to Victoria Hospitalto look for Col. McKay, our Brigadier, he hadleft to stay as the Savoy hotel yesterday Ifound out. I saw Col C. Nicoll & hada long talk with him. He is pretty bad& cannot move his body without assistance. Hewas very brave & he is looking forwardto getting well again - It is hard luckfor him to be confined to his bed for solong- I trust that he will fully recover.Went to the Savoy & found the Brigadierout I met Capt McGee 1st Bn 1st Bdehe was wounded also. Found the ColBrigadier at 1pm & presented my papersapplication to join my Bn at the frontfrom me & an application from Frankfor a Commission - (Our papers hadbeen sent back to us from the M.Base asking for recommendation &signature from the Senior officer yourBn & a request from the Bn askingfor me. The Brigadier was grand& he soon recomended minutedthe papers strongly recommendingus. for & Me for the front &Frank for a commission The minute on my papers from himis as follows. Base Commandant"Owing to the very numerous casualtiesin the 7th Bn under my CommandLt Tubb's services are required atGallopoli". He has previous experiencesas a Regimental Officer and I recommendstrongly that he be sent to the frontto his Bn by the next steamer."J W. McKay ColComing 2nd Inf BdeAlexandria