Author: Frederick Harold Tubb. Date: Tuesday 29.06.1915. Nationality: Australian. Couldnt sleep properly last night. The flagpavement below gives back thegreat rattle & noise of vehicles.Breakfasted at the Majesticand am taking out some moreof my stuff to the Base whereI am again going to report Received the same oldstory from the Base, "Reportat half past nine tomorrowmorning I don't think I'llget away before Friday byall accounts. I met Lt Stewart& Lt Fraser (late RSM) atMustapha, they are bothconvalescent and will begoing to England shortlySpent the morning with them(and Capt Kirby) of the 8th)at the club. I went out tolunch at the Carllo withKirby. I drew 4 morefrom the Paymaster but hadto "work the oracle" withthe staff clerk to do soas I am was 4/- over drawnAm getting to know my wayabout Alexandria nowOne want's plenty of cash to do it in the proper style(!)Lt. Fraser late R.S.M toldme that the reason why moreof our 7th men were not mentionedin honors despatches etc wasthat the names (24) that werehanded in to Brigade MajorCass, were lost by him the day he was wounded. Fraser saysthat the list has been foundsince and that the awardsshould appear before long I?Hear that Major Masow hasgone to England to recoup. Someof our officers have gone to Florencehaving from Malta havingreceived invitations from English& others to stay with them. It issplendid of these families & A.I.for officers who have a royaltime at no expense? .I wentround to the American Kursal& Casino Bellevue in the eveningand was interested. I had alook at a game called PelottaBasque, played in an enclosurewith a curved canoe shapedbat & a ball, plenty of bettingis indulged in by the spectatorsbut I left that alone, It is acurious sort of a game - Bookmakersas well as the totalisator were inevidence. Came back to myroom at 11.30 & have sent a boyfor a bottle of beer. It is verydifficult to get a drink here after9.30 now owing to the closingof sale of it at that time. The blessed place herenever seems to go to sleepa continuous rattle of Arabic's& pedestrians keeps up. Havejust seen the Town piquetpatrolling the streets. Theniggers here all have "It's along way to Tipperary" pat& they sing it in tune too?One hears every sort of languagespoken in this place. It's agood job that most of themcan understand some EnglishThere's no doubt that Englishpeople are top dog here. TheAustralians are thought a lotof amongst the peoples hereIt is noticeable that theAustralians are a superiorrace to anything we've seenyet. - The boy has just arrivedwith the beer - drinks arevery expensive in most placeshere. 5 piastres each, is theusual price in the best hotelsbut at the Kursal 11 is charged119 for Tennets lager + 18pTfor two whiskies and soda'sMidnight is striking bythe big clock in the Bourseso it's a fair thing for bed?