Author: Frederick Harold Tubb. Date: 22.06.1915. Nationality: Australian. Text: Tuesday. Very hot Routine work in the morningAfter lunch I went to Alexandriawith Lt. [[McGuire?]] to play tennisThe courts which are near therace course are splendid Every convenience, fine lavatoriesbathrooms showers, niggers to chaseballs afternoon tea etc. We had somegreat games. There are about tenCourts all in good order. The surroundingsare fine, lovely gardens,& green turf racing track. I had dinnerat [[Georgies?]] and returned to Camp atmidnight. - Bulgaria seems likecoming in - Italy seems to bedoing well, Mackensen will makehis promise of getting Lemburg goodby accounts. Turkey is muchmore formidable than wasimagined, paper states that theyhave 1,250 000 magazine rifles etc.Rumour states that a move isshortly to take place - Our new G.O.C.Gen Legg is credited with sayingthat the wants all Australian troopsremoved from Egypt - Venice &Cyprus are spoken of as placeswhere we may go to(!) It isso hot in Cairo, Heliopolis etcthat report states that broken boneswon't knit, or wounds heal.A new Camp Commandant is cominghere, an English Officer, seems strange?Received letters from home to May 18 lastnight - Glad to hear of all doings at home - pleased to hear of the grandrain in May. Hope the U&D. strikeit rich! Am continually wonderingwhen I will get my orders to moveto the peninsula. Things are veryquiet here & F & I would like toget a move on! L/ Col RichardsonWarwickshire Yeomanry is taking overCamp Commandant tomorrow since MajorHoldsworth who is going back to his Coy.Got another letter from hometelling of offer for Post Office houseI hope Father won't sell it - I wantit when I return(!) Spent theevening down at HQrs messMajor Holdsworth read us thelatest news from the front (official)explaining the object of & givingdetails of attacking the DardanellesThere were 34,000 Turks & 100 gunson the peninsula opposing us theday we landed & 4 5 000 on theAsiatic side, they were [[Nippon?]](regular troops) they were quicklyreinforced by others from Constantinoplebringing them up to 150,000. Official report statesthat at a low estimate 5 5,000casualties have occurred amongstthem to 15th June. They haveplenty of ammunition, but thingsare happening in Constantinoplethat give the idea that we arehave done splendidly and are stilldoing so - Bayley a man correspondent whohas been all through the warareas lately returned to day. Hesays that at Berlin they are turningup their parks, and planting potatoesHe attended a "Mid summer's nights dreamin Berlin about 24 days ago - AtConstantinople the streets arealmost deserted all the loafers& others of leisure have disappeared. Instructionsre behaviour on enemy showingthe white flag are promulgatedcautioning our men to be verycareful etc. A cable is publishedcongratulating us from the HighCommissioner London & a replyfrom Gen Birdwood. Evidentlythings are progressing favorablyfor our side, but time will showand it will take a long time yet I'mthinking before we win the day.Rumour states that Roumaniais joining with us. If this turnsout to be correct it will be GoodbyeTurk before long! The wind has shifted It is off the sea now making it cooler, & possible for us to get a decent sleep -When the wind blows off the sea it is moist and leaves makeseverything sticky. Clothes & hands feel as if they had come in contactwith honey or sugar.