Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 21st March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 21st. Wednesday.Morning Parade:--New attacking formation lecture. " " " practice.Afternoon Parade:--Rugby football match. Officers V. N.C.O.s.One try each.1700 Lecture. BAYONET FIGHTING by Capt. Hood.Army Instructional Staff."It has been a very great surprise to me to actually seefor myself what little some of the 1st. Aust. Division knowabout bayonet fighting; their attempt at both the "long point"and the withdrawal are bad.An infantry unit has at its command three weapons.1st. Rifle and bayonet) - 30 -2nd. Grenades ) ) Each of importance in the named order.3rd. Lewis Guns)While you officers and N.C.O.s are at school especialattention should be given to your bayonet work so that youwill be able to correct errors on your return to your companys.Teach your men to make good points and proper withdrawals.There was a time when bayonet fighting was practiced bynumbers: It looked very nice too. I've known bayonet exercises to be practiced keeping time to the regimental band.(Laughter). But it was all nonsense, and from the commencementof the war right down to the present time we have been takingnotice and improving our system of training.Now bayonet fighting is not taught through the ear; everybody must learn through the eye and brain.On guard position the left arm is slightly bent. The manmust stand straight, leaning back a little but on no accountto be bent forward.Practice controle must be taught and properly controledin getting through, or over, obstacles.The enemy trench must be rushed by as many men at onetime as is possible; therefore the men must be controled tocome forward in a line so as to throw its whole weight into thetrench at the same moment.The bayonet must be used with force. It must be made tokill. The breast on each side is a good mark, but its disadvantages are that the bayonet might get fastened between theribs. The belly is a fatal spot but being guarded by equiptment etc. it should be avoided. Either of the groins are themost useful places to point as the arteries pass close to thesurface and are easily severed. When the enemy is runningaway the kidneys are the most certain point.The parry must be done without the bayonet point beingtaken off the enemys body.Butt strokes may be useful but should only be taught byway of a light exercise. Men should use their knees and feet when in close quarters.Attention should be paid to physical training. Gamesare not part of the training but simply to break the monotony.Troops in attack should not be hurried to the extent ofarriving at their objective "blown." As in bayonet work thetroops must be fresh and in proper condition to go on with thefighting.