Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 12th March 1918. Location: Roman Camp. Nationality: Australian. March 12th. Monday.Morning Parade:--Section drill.Musketry.Guards and Sentrys.We were on the "Roman Camp" parade ground. I was called out to drillthe section, under direction from the instructor which is a muchmore difficult matter than drilling a section at ones own leisure.Owing to the damaged shoulder I was unable to do musketry.Afternoon parade:--Lewis Gun demonstration one hour.Squad drill.The stripping and explanation of the Lewis gun was very good.1730 Lecture "Intelligence" by Army Corps officer. This lecturewas of one hours duration, but never at any period failed to holdthe attention of the listeners. In an easy, even tone the lecturerdealt with the form of "Intelligence" that would be needed in open,or semi-open, warfare which was likely to present itself throughout this Summer.Each department Division, Battalion and Companys should have - 16 -properly trained and reliable observers to follow every movementin the enemy lines. To study the ways and habits of the Germansso as to note any change that he might make.Patroles must be always out watching the enemy; to find outif possible the strength of his trenches the number of men in themand whether he is showing any signs of a further retirement. Reportsmust be sent in immediately anything worth reporting is seen andone cannot be over careful in noting the little things that oncasual thought might be considered of no importance.As valuable information would be useless without proper meansof communication we must dealt with communication at once. Telephoneis out of consideration so messages must be sent by runners of through signallers. The daylight signaling lamps appear to bethe quikest and most reliable means is reasonable weather. Mapsshould be carefully read and studied before going into the war zoneso that the observers etc. are familiar with the names of roads thedirections of same, and the position of the villages.Search parties should be carefully selected to look over thenewly captured ground for papers or documents of any kind. Recentlya German order was taken showing that all evidences of theiroccupation in paper form must be systematicly destroyed; Names onwalls or names on directing posts to trenches etc. must be obliterated.This, they are doing so that information is very difficult toobtain now. A dirty looking and poorly made map was recentlyhanded to Corps. which turned out ot be of utmost value showing asit did 12 machine gun position. Prisoners are of vital interest inthe obtaining of information so they should be hurried back asquickly as possible. Care should be taken that officers or N.C.O.sare not allowed to converse with these men, as they may influencethem not to talk. Time fuses and shell directions are especiallyvaluable as we then know the range and if the guns are being removedback preparing for a further retirement.