Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 21st November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 21st. Tuesday.The mist, which was very thick, lifted towards theafternoon, and having absolutely nothing to do, I set aboutmaking a larger house around the shafts of the farrier's cartwith some blankets and canvas covers, and so, tonight I havea camp bed to sleep on and a higher roof overhead. Sgt.Winzar sleeps on a stretcher on the other side.This afternoon I took a hack out for exercise. At2 p.m. we struck out across country for the Amiens-Albert Road.The turf was a little heavy but old Tom was in glorious formand took his several jumps over some mounds of earth and acrossa series of emergency trenches. A Frenchman with a pair ofhandsome horses was busy breaking up a long strip of groundwith the commonly used reversable one way, double moulboardplough, which allowed him to work up and down on the samefurrow. He handled his horses to perfection by word of mouthand a single rein. It was a charming picture to watch thoseheavy, arched and thick necked chestnut horses clinking attheir curb bits and moving steadily and stately along aperfectly straight line. They moved along as evenly and asquietly as a pair of Lemnos Island oxen. The driver, anelderly man, was at ease and unworried by his labours. Hisgarb was typical of the Picardy farmer, corduroy trousers, many - 20 -seasons old and still in good repair; a short waisted jumperalso of corduroy but of a different tint to the pants due tothe latter being sun bleached in the summer months; a redcoloured neckerchief was jammed in around the jumper collarwhile a weather worn plush cap without peak or brim fittedwell down all round his head, and his boots had long uppersand substantial soles. In the grey light of the dull daythe whole effect of this simple ploughing scene was a treasure,greatly added to by the five black crows that hopped noisilyalong the furrows picking up worms and taking but littleinterest in anything around about as they gambolledenthusiastically along.Away ahead and to my left were whole ranges ofattic roofs fitted on to the ground, in which troops restedover night en route, or rested for a few days back from thefiring line. On ahead about 300 yards were some 30 largemotor cars standing around and a repair shop nearby. In thedistance and on the hill sides, opened to my view by theundulating country, were hundreds of bell tents and largemarquees, while in three different directions, standing upon the sky line like huge mushrooms, were aerodromes oraeroplane sheds. The main road could be followed for milesand miles by the double line of tall trees that marked itscourse. On moving on to the top of a hill I disturbed a finebig hare. It got up and jumped away with its short whitetail bobbing and its light brown body bounding with remarkablepace and ease. I tried to gallop after it. Tom was keentoo and tried his best, but too many years have passed overthe brave old horse's head to enable him to follow it. Myshouts and calls though kept that hare, and also the other onethat got up a few minutes afterwards, running for half a mileor more. - 21 -There were also several small flocks of quailpeacefully moving about. They were much larger than theAustralian quail. Two kinds of crows were in flocks also.Besides the cunning black crow that we know so well, therewas another one with a black face, wings and tail but alightish brown or grey body. He stood as big or perhapsa little bigger than his black cousin and was equally asflippant.I was as yet no more than 1 miles from camp whenI ran out on to the main road. I would have chosen to stayout on the fields instead of going on to the hard road, butthere came across my open track a line of barb-wire stretchingfor miles with breaks for roads and paths only. Theseemergency defences are interwoven and twisted, pegged withsticks or posts 3 feet above ground. For miles behind ourown line in every direction are these stretches of wireentanglements, also redoubts and trenches.Along the road to Albert, 2 miles, there wereGerman prisoners at work. They seemed quite jolly andgazed curiously about at all that is going on, and seemedto pay me special attention. I thought it rather a laughabletouch to see the Germans putting up a heavy barb-wire compoundor "bird cage" as they are called, for their own confinementand security.There seemed to be but little alteration in Albertsince I was last there in August, other than that there werea number of stores opened in the old shambled buildings. Thestreets were crowded with traffic of all kinds, and the trafficmen were at their wits end to keep the lines moving.Albert is on the Ancre River yet one would neverknow, in fact I have been through Albert several times andcould not see the river. Today I first saw it running throughunderneath the back portion of the ruined church, (a fine church - 22 -at one time, built of red bricks with stone corners andblocking and with a very tall tower; the Virgin and Childstill hanging right over on to the street). The style ofchurch is just like many English churches. The square towerthough shaken and battered could still be used as an observationpost. Anyhow the river ran under the church and was used justoutside to drive a water-wheel, and ran on through the townbetween narrow brick walls and built over most of the time.From Albert I turned and came through Dernacourt toBuire to camp. On the road I passed hundreds of Germans roadmaking and unloading goods trains. Passing a large depot Igot quite an eye-opener as to the quantities and differentkinds of stores that have to be stocked to keep an army going,timber of all lengths and sizes in piles covering acres ofground, corrugated iron in bundles to make natty half roundhouses of up behind the line, and a heavy large corrugatedkind to roof over dugouts and to stand the pressure of earthand sand bags on top; timber from feather weight scantlingsto long lengths of sawn hardwood 18 inches square, and steelrails and trucks of all sizes. It was a most impressivecollection of piles and piles and stacks upon stacks of onething and another, and the only name its got officially is"Dernacourt Dump".Up in the area captured from the Germans there area whole lot of roads and tracks recently formed. To thecrossings are some of the best known English names appliedsuch as Picardilly Circus, Oxford Circus, Swansea Circus,Bloomsbury Road, and Regent Street, etc. etc. A crossing inLongueval was known as Longueval Circus.Old Tom seemed to be slowing down and putting up ajoke on me as I had neither whip or spur and he is a cunninghorse, but to his dismay, and thereafter his great concern,he stepped out in great style. - 23 -We passed a newly laid double railway track, andhad a good view of the valley in which the Ancre River runsover a considerable length. The course of the river wasmade plain by the tall and leafless trees that grow in thesomewhat marshy country near its banks. Here and in Belgiumthe land is always made use of for growing timber when unsuitablefor cultivation on account of marsh. Along the road forhome there were Germans digging deep holes some 10 feet squarealong the road side so as to drain the water off in wet weather.There are some thousands of these holes on this "Big Push" area,and they answer very well up to a certain point.On reaching camp it was nearly dark and yet justturned 4 o'clock. It was a great afternoon's ride and I wasthankful for being alone as there was only myself to please,and my mind was not drawn away to other topics and sights thanthose I wanted to see and to follow. I might have lookedlonely but I was nevertheless in my element.At night, or rather after tea, I thought of my fruitlessattempts at writing for the past few days and decided tostroll up and see the picture show. After some trouble inlocating the building, there being no outward indication of itswhereabouts, I found it made of empty ammunition boxes and lined,also roofed with a tar-fabric composition. There were 20 longnarrow forms packed closely together, and some of them wereevidently made for another purpose as bomb cases were used tomake them long enough for their present need. 16 men sat ateach form, and as I was late and having paid 2d entrance fee,stood against the wall and enjoyed the three films I saw. Thecrowd was in good humour and enjoyed the show also, even ifthey did laugh aloud when the hero was again and again rescuedfrom impossible positions.I was compelled to put my light out at 10 p.m. orI would have read. - 24 -