Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 14th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 14th. Tuesday. Leave Longueval.We have orders to be ready to leave here at 12.30p.m. after spending 15 days in Longueval.I have just returned from the prisoners' cage whereI found 19 young and well built Germans enclosed. There issomething strikingly interesting about these Germans, andnumbers of English and Australian troops stand about lookingat them and eager to get a few words of conversation with them.Two of the party speak English a little but what they have hadto say, other than that, in reply to one of our officers, aGerman said:- "Well! I thought we were winning the war upto yesterday!!"These Germans are very well dressed, long pants,high top boots, jacket, round loose caps or steel helmets.The colour of the uniform is a dark greenish grey and fitsthem very well. Practical, thorough and all as the Germanreally is he cannot get away from show and decorative valueof a soldier's uniform, therefore he makes his cap pleasingto the eye by a fairly broad band, 3/4 of an inch, of marooncoloured braid. The jacket is faced with thin braid of thesame colour, while plain brass buttons set off the front.There is, at the same time, three buttons on the false cuffsand two lines of three brass buttons at the back to cover theungainliness of the roomy pleat which allows the person plentyof room in the jacket to sit down while the waist band isfairly tight. In front the jacket is long and square cut,and covers up the front nicely. The pants all have roomyside pockets instead of the cross pockets on our clothes. - 11 -The whole effect is plain and yet pleasing to the eye.There is something to admire about those Germans, theymove about or stand up with a composure that speaksopenly for their strong spirit and air of carelessindependence. They address our men as "comrade" andbutt in for a cigarette or to have one lighted with allthe confidence, right to do so and earnestness of a manamongst his most exclusive friends. They stroll aboutjauntily with one or both hands deep into their sidepockets and set up posing attitudes when standing around.They indeed seem unembarrassed by their captivity and allapparently carefree and cool individuals.Ever since this war started I have been greatlyworried by the non-existance of direction posts to guidemen in their movements from one part of the front toanother. Messages are often given to men in small andeven large parties to go to a given point. Maybe it isthe Battalion Headquarters, or an important Dump (everythingis a Dump on this front if goods or ammunition of any kindor in any quantities are stored) and it is only with thegreatest difficulty and after much futile enquiring thatthe place is found. I have even met despatch bearers lost,and more important still, medical men and ammunition carrierslose their bearings and cannot return to their posts.All this confusion is due to the want of directionposts. Sign posts giving names or numbers so that men,particularly here in France, could get their bearings andthereby do their duties more effectively and expeditiously.Fatigue parties have been known to walk right over into theGerman trenches and be taken prisoners owing to there beingno guiding marks along the communication trenches. "True,the ways of the military folk are queer!!" - 12 -I understand that our 2nd Division failed togain their objective last night in a "hop over" and lostseverely.Two German planes hovered over our lines only afew hundred feet high this afternoon. They were 1 milesinto our territory when a cloud lifted and exposed them.I fear they had lost their bearings in the low lying cloudsas they got away quickly back to their own side and did notuse their machine guns at all.We started out at 4 o'clock and owing to theusual breaks and stoppages we arrived at Becordel at 10 p.m.having travelled only 3 miles.We are now camped behind the original British andGerman lines before the "Big Push".