Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 16th November 1916. Nationality: Australian. November 16th. Thursday.Two lovely parcels from Mother to hand yesterday.On going to bed I opened the most mystic looking one. Thecustoms label and stamps were torn off so that I could notgleam the contents. I got a delightful surprise to find itcontained the most desirable articles possible, a sheepskincoat with sleeves in it and a pair of good gloves, socks and - 14 -soap. The round billy parcel I have not yet opened butthe label tells me its contents to be plum pudding cakeand cigarettes. It is risky to put dry cigarettes withmoist cake they may mildew.K. Evans sent me a sheep skin vest which I wasthankful for but the new one is easily the best I have yetseen and will be of great value in this country. Evennow the weather though dry is frosty and cold.Well, great things have happened today. A changehas come about that has altered my military career materially.Major Bamsden of our unit has recommended myself amongst fourothers for a commission in the 1st Battalion. Following uponhis appointment I saw Colonel this morning at 11.30 a.m. Heasked me a number of questions which seemed to satisfy himand then asked me if I thought I could command and lead abody of men. My reply was:- "On condition that I knew mysubject, object and work, which I doubted without first havingsome training". He checked me at once, stating that he,himself, was there to judge that matter. This afternoonthree of us, Woollams, Dingle and myself were sent for to seethe Brigadier. Woollams was missing so Dingle and I wentdown and saw General Smyth, who in few words of questioningsaid that he would accept Colonel ---- recommendation andhoped that I would be successful and rise to promotion rapidly.Dingle was told very much the same thing.So tonight matters stand greatly altered. TomorrowI go into Amiens and do some shopping before being called toface the Battalion. I do not rejoice over the matter, it maybe honour, credit and all that sort of thing, but then my chancecomes only through the number of casualties and the demand thereis at present for officers. Anybody really can get one, manyfellows have succeeded in getting through by going forward andasking, but I take a whole lot of satisfaction from the fact - 15 -that I was sent for.I know the danger of the undertaking full well.11 officers were shot out of the 1st Battalion during theirfew days in the trenches at Longueval, some wounded of course.Out of 36 bombers only 6 now answer the roll call. JimRandel I hear was shot in the chest and is serious. I wouldnot have accepted the position only for the fact that I cameaway to do the bidding of my country. I came to help inany work that those above me saw fit to give me, and now Igraciously accept a position of grave danger, and in doingso I have no fear but what I am doing the right thing, andI hold no presentiments on the matter whatever as my mottostands - "Whatever is, is best" Temperature: