Author: Thomas James Richards. Date: 9th March 1918. Nationality: Australian. March 9th. Friday.Morning:--9 a.m. to 12.30 p.m.Physical by the Cockney Sergeant was very good; I hope to learna number of good exercises from him.Musketry by Capt. Maltby. He dealt with the correct method ofaiming from the prone position, and explained the respective positionof the two sights in relation to the target by pieces of cardboard.One representing the bulls' eye, one the fore sight and one theback sight. These pieces are slipped in behind one another andclearly show the faults of bad aiming.Afternoon:--Route march and Squad drill.The instructor had me out giving command to the squad. Hewas very (always is, in fact) patient and shows considerableinterest in his work which reflects upon the officers and makesthem keen and interested also.Lecture by Col. Stephens on COURT MARTIAL.The Commonwealth Defense Act provides for all troops to betried under Military Law for all and any crimes committed while asoldier from the moment they sail from Australian under thecommand of a British regular. But where the death sentence ispassed such cannot be put into effect without the santion of theGovernor General of Australia. There are also other modifications.There are three different grades and formations of CourtsMartials; but the one most common to us here in the field, isthe Field General Court Martial it mostly consists of threeofficers, one at least of its members should rank a Captain or - 13 -Major. This form of court cannot try an officer. An officermust arrest an officer. Non commission officers may arrest non-commissionofficers. A Lance Corporal cannot arrest a privateeven he must go to the orderley sergeant or to the sergeant major.18 hours notice, must be given a prisoner to prepare hisdefense before his case can be called at F. G. C. M. The chargesheet is first carefully examined to see that it is in properorder before the prisoner is called in. The accused is asked ifhe has any objection to the formation of the court or to themembers thereon. Everyone is then "sworn in" and swear that theywill not discuss the case or any of the evidence given outside ofthe court.If the prisoner pleads guilty the case is decided upon thesummary evidence. If "Not Guilty," the summary evidence is notto be used other than to prevent witnesses from contradictoryevidence, and as a check. The prisoner can either make a statementwithout being sworn or give evidence on oath. He cannot be crossexamined on "statement", but on oath carried more weight in thecourt.Witnesses can be recalled to give fresh evidence only. Thecourt is cleared for the court to discuss the charge. If theprisoner is found "not guilty" he is at once presented before thecourt and dismissed. But if "guilty" the sentence is written oncharge sheet, though the prisoner is not informed until theevidence and papers connected with the case is confirmed by Div.Hdqs. Civilian witnesses can be called.An officer can defend the accused and cross examine allwitnesses; but other ranks can only instruct prisoner and askquestions through the accused. Not direct questions to either thecourt or witness giving evidence. If the accused has good groundfor objecting to be tried by the different courts his case can goright up to the King for hearing.After dinner to-night the officers after two days warningwere called upon to speak on the "Care of Arms". Lieut. Sampsonwas first called and he dealt satisfactorily with the subject as Company in Attack with two platoon frontage lay down in "Musketry No. 1." Several others were called upon andshowed that they were more familiar with the subject matter thanthey were with speaking.I am gaining much information; but there is so much to graspthat I fear my practical work will suffer in consequence. We getso very little time to study at all. At night time there is noconvenient place to read or write.