Author: Frederick Harold Tubb. Date: Sunday July 04.07.1915. Nationality: Australian. It was terribly hot andstuffy in the cabins last nightThe ship was kept darkened for fearof submarines - This ship of theAllan Line was built forCanadian trade and is not suitablefor hot weather. The windows of thecabins won't open excepting asmall ventilator window there areno port holes. I couldn't standit in the cabin & went up tocautiously in the dark and goton a couch above the saloonwhere it was nice and cool.From conversation in the smokeroom. I gathered that the reinforcementofficers that joined the Brigade in May have beensent back to Alexandria to preventthem from superseding the first officerswhich is quite right?When our Bde went to Cape Helles fromGaba Tepe on May 8th they lost 1800in two hours out of 2,800 thereinforcementof our Bde that joinedus when there were not sufficientlytrained in many cases some of themen could not load a rifle properly.Poor beggars, they wentright into a terrific fight assoon as they landed 10.00 Amsitting on deck enjoying the breezethe Captain has joined me & wehave had a long yarn. he told methat England is building 12 floatingbatteries, Monitor type they only draw 8ft &have 15 inch guns, they will be of greatassistance as time goes on? for theypresent only a small target. TheCapt. told me a lot about Canadawhere he has been going off & on for20 years. There are 1400 of us aboard.a mixture of all sorts reinforcements &recovered from wounds men for unitsnearly of every part of our Aust DivisionsLieut Yates of the 8th Bn is mycabin mate, He had done overa fortnights fighting before he wasouted. He is now recovered & is going back to his Bn. I am officer of theGuard & on duty from 10pm to 2 amhave just inspected the sentries atmidnight There is a big guard &special instructions have been issuedregarding submarine attacks. Themen are armed with ball cartridgesOrders are to concentrate rapid fireon the orders of ships officer, men to firejust shortf short of periscope toobscure view of submarine etc.Whilst discussing things in thesmoking room tonight A NavalOfficer said that there were 6submarines of ours at Port Mudros.Two German submarines & one Australianwere known to have come hereTwo are supposed to be accountedfor. (The Surflshuce claims to havesunk one) The Queen Elizabethhas been sent home for repairsher boilers or engines went bung.She couldn't steam more than 12 knotsso she had to go back. The Navysay that they have got 27submarines altogether. They havea first rate system of netting themnow ("something like fishing forherrings") about of a mile of netis trawled capable of sustaining180 lbs pressure before breaking when a submarine strikes or thenet it breaks. On the net arebuoys with 180 fathoms of thinwire which uncoils easilythe submarine with the netclinging to it is followed by thebuoy & eventually accounted for.